

IEN 152                                                        Vint Cerf
                                                              DARPA/IPTO
                                                               1 July 80





                      DoD Protocol Standardization



The attached memoranda from the Principal Deputy Undersecretary of
Defense for Research and Engineering and from the Assistant Secretary of
Defense (Communications, Command, Control and Intelligence) describe the
DoD plans for standardizing internet protocols.  The first two are the
Internet Protocol and the Transmnission Control Protocol.

The DARPA Internet project will continue to provide technical support
for the DoD standardization effort, including the test and evaluation of
selected proposed standards.




                     THE UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
                         WASHINGTON, D.C. 20301


                                                               23 Dec 78



MEMORANDUM FOR SECRETARY OF THE ARMY
               SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
               SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
               CHAIRMAN, JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF
               DIRECTOR, DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY
               DIRECTOR, DEFENSE COMMUNICATIONS AGENCY
               DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
               DIRECTOR, DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY
               DIRECTOR, NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

SUBJECT:  Host-to-Host Protocols for Data Communications Networks


A number of data communications networks are operating or under
development within DoD, without adequate provisions for
interoperability.  AUTODIN II is expected to become operational during
FY 1980, to provide common-user data communications service for DoD
computer systems and permit a reduction in the number of specialized
data networks.  Plans are under way to incorporate within AUTODIN II
networks such as the WWMCCS Intercomputer Network (WIN), Intelligence
Data Handling System Communications (IDHSC) and the SAC Digital Network
(SACDIN), among others.  Local networks such as the Community On-Line
Intelligence Network System (COINS) and certain tactical networks must
have effective AUTODIN II interfaces.

AUTODIN II will provide connectivity for a wide range of systems, but
the potential for information exchange beyond narrowly defined
communities will be limited without appropriate standards for internet,
host-to-host, terminal-to-host and other protocols.  As the need to
exchange information across network boundaries increases, lack of common
protocols standards will become a formidable barrier to
interoperability.  Techniques in which the protocols of one network are
translated into the protocols of another will become increasingly
unworkable as the number of protocols and networks requiring
interoperation increases.

To insure interoperability of future data networking, I am directing the
adoption of a set of DoD standard host-to-host protocols based on the
Transmission Control and Internet Protocols (TCP/IP version 4) developed
in the DARPA/DCA internetwork community.  DoD requirements for
precedence, security, and community of interest controls will be
incorporated within the standard protocol set.  Use of these protocols
will be mandatory for all packet-oriented data networks where there is a
potential for host-to-host connectivity across network or subnetwork
boundaries.  Case-by-case exceptions will be granted only for networks
that can be shown to have no future requirements for interoperability.
Because the host-to-host protocol being developed for AUTODIN II evolved



from an early version of TCP and is unsuitable for internetwork
operation, the AUTODIN II TCP will have to be upgraded to the standard
protocol set.  Recognizing that there may be cost and schedule impacts
on the AUTODIN II program, the Defense Communications Agency should
perform a cost tradeoff analysis to determine the optimum time for this
transition.  DCA should provide the results of this analysis by April
1979.

To address these and future protocol issues and promulgate appropriate
standards, I am forming an OSD Protocol Standards Working Group chaired
by the Director, Information Systems.  I ask each addressee to nominate
a representative.  Names should be provided by 8 January 1979 to LTC
Wilcox (695-3287).  The first task of this group will be to finalize
details of the standard host-to-host protocol set.  Draft specifications
for these protocols will be available in January 1979.  Final
specifications should be distributed by April 1979 following review by
the working group and testing by DCA and DARPA.  At that time, I expect
to promulgate these standards and set dates for their adoption.

The Defense Communications Agency is designated as DoD Executive Agent
for computer communications protocols and will manage the implementation
and development and evolution of standard host-to-host protocols, as
designated by the Protocol Standards Working Group.  The DCA will
forward to this office within 120 days a management plan for carrying
out this role.





                                                       Gerald P. Dinneen
                                                        Principal Deputy



                     ASSISTANT SECRETARY OF DEFENSE


                         Washington, D.C. 20301




                                                                3 Apr 80





MEMORANDUM FOR SECRETARY OF THE ARMY
               SECRETARY OF THE NAVY
               SECRETARY OF THE AIR FORCE
               CHAIRMAN, JOINT CHEIFS OF STAFF
               DIRECTOR, DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY
               DIRECTOR, DEFENSE COMMUNICATIONS AGENCY
               DIRECTOR, DEFENSE INTELLIGENCE AGENCY
               DIRECTOR, DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY
               DIRECTOR, NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY

SUBJECT:  Host-to-Host Data Communications Protocols


The revised Management Plan for Standardizatioan of Host-to-Host Data
Communications Protocols (enclosure 1) is approved.  The plan has been
modified to emphasize DCA's direct responsibilities as Executive Agent.

The DoD Standard Transmission Control Protocol and Internet Protocol
Specifications (enclosure 2) are hereby ratified.  Use of these
protocols is mandatory for all packet-oriented data networks where there
is a potential for host-to-host connectivity across network or
subnetwork boundaries.  In order to facilitate rapid implementation of
these protocols on DoD networks, the Defense Communications Agency, as
part of its Executive Agent role, will prepare a series of
workshop/seminars and implementation support documents to assist the DoD
activities in implementing these protocols.  The AUTODIN II
implementation of these protocol standards will take place as soon after
AUTODIN II IOC as possible.

I would like to thank all those who participated in the OSD Protocol
Standards Working Group during the past year.  That Working Group is
hereby disestablished and its responsibilities are transferred to the
various DCA panels as defined in the Executive Agent Charter.



                                                       Gerald P. Dinneen



Enclosures 2



                            MANAGEMENT PLAN

                                  For

          EXECUTIVE AGENT FOR STANDARDIZATION OF HOST-TO-HOST

                DATA COMMUNICATIONS PROTOCOLS IN THE DOD



     1.  Reference.  USDRE Memo, Host-to-Host Protocols for Data
Communications Newtworks, 23 Dec 78.

     2.  Introduction.  This paper constitutes the Executive Agent
Management Plan for Standardization of Data Communications Protocols in
the DoD.  This Plan identifies the major functions, the organization and
responsibilities of the Director, Defense Communications Agency as the
Executive Agent and the responsibilities of the Military Departments and
DoD Agencies for supporting the Executive Agent.

     3.  Authority.  The authority for establishing the Director,
Defense Communications Agency (DCA) as the Executive Agent for
Standardization of Host-to-Host Data Communications Protocols in the DoD
is contained in the reference.  A more permanent authority will be
provided by a DoD Directivce which will be drafted by DCA for the
signature of the Principal Deputy Under Secretary of Defense, Research
and Engineering, upon approval of this Plan.

     4.  Background.  Protocols are the rules of performance for data
communications networks; and these rules pervade all levels of
performance, from electrical interfaces to the interactions among user
processes within host computers.  Hence, the standardization of
protocols is of interest and concern to a number of organizational
elements, including operators, program managers, systems engineers,
standards groups and users.  Judicious management of protocol standards
can do much to enhance the value of DoD data communications services.
Conversely, lax management of standards on the one hand, or overly
zealous insistence on unnecessary conformity on the other, can cause
user dissatisfaction and spawn proposals for special-purpose networks.

     Within DCA, the Deputy Directors for Systems Engineering, Command
and Control Systems, Command and Control Technical Support, Plans and
Programs, and Operations and Readiness have clear and vital interests in
this important area, and their full and active participation is
essential to the success of the Executive Agent's protocol
standardization efforts.  Moreover, it is important to have the
participation of user representatives from the Services, Defense
Agencies OJCS and JINTACCS to ensure responsiveness of the Executive
Agent to user operational requirements.  Likewise, the participation of
the National Communications System is essential so that the Executive
Agent can benefit from NCS federal and international standards
experience.  The participation of non-DoD government organizations who
are concerned with protocol standardization, such as the Intelligence
Community Staff and the National Bureau of Standards, is useful and will
therefore be invited.



     5.  Functions of the Executive Agent.  The Director, DCA, as
Executive Agent, will manage the development, implementation and
evolution of standard host-to-host and higher level data communications
protocols.  Specifically, the Executive Agent will perform the following
functions:

        a.  Provide a forum for discussion with Services and Defense
Agencies on requirements for new standards.

        b.  Based on identified requirements, cause new proposals for
standardization or for enhancements and modifications to existing
standards to be specified.

        c.  Prepare, distribute and maintain documentation of the
standards and their specifications.

        d.  Maintain configuration control of the standards and their
specifications.

        e.  Evaluate and approve or disapprove proposed standards and
specifications for use by the DoD.

        f.  Evaluate and approve or disapprove requests for waivers
received from the Services and Defense Agencies.

        g.  Test proposed standards and specifications.

        h.  Coordinate a DoD RDTE effort to develop new protocols and
identify items having standardization potential.

        i.  Provide a forum for exchange of technical information on
host-to-host and higher level data communications protocols.

        j.  Monitor federal, national and international standards
developments to ensure that DoD requirements have appropriate influence
in standardization forums.

        k.  Ensure that DoD standards are developed with due
consideration of emerging federal, national and international standards
as appropriate.

     6.  Organization.  DCA will use resources from its headquarters
directorates and field offices to carry out the functions of the
Executive Agent delineated in paragraph 5 above.  The principal
responsibilities will be assumed by the Systems Engineering Directorate
(DCA Code 1000) for technical functions, and by the Operations and
Readiness Directorate (DCA Code 500) for configuration control
functions.  To provide for the full participation of the Military
Departments, Defense Agencies and other DoD components, two panels, a
Protocol Configuration Control Board (PCCB) and a Protocol Standards
Technical Panel (PSTP), will be established to advise and assist DCA in
performing the Executive Agent functions.  A Protocol Standards Steering
Group (PSSG), also comprised of representatives of all interested DoD
components, will provide overall direction to the effort and will advise
the Director, DCA, on policy matters.



     The relationship among the several organizational elements assigned
functions in support of the Excecutive Agent are portrayed in Figure 1,
and their responsibilities and membership are defined as follows:

        a.  Protocol Standards Steering Group (PSSG).  The PSSG will
recommend DoD standards policy decisions to the Director, DCA, and will
provide on his behalf a focal point for overseeing the performance of
the Executive Agent functions.  Because host-to-host and higher level
protocol technology is currently a subject of R&D, the PSSG will be
chaired initially by a representative of the DCA Deputy Director for
Systems Engineering.  At an appropriate later time to be designated by
the Director, DCA, when protocol specification, development and
validation technology has matured, the chairmanship will pass to a
representative of the DCA Directorate for Operations and Readiness.  The
members of the PSSG will be the chairpersons of the Protocol
Configuration Control Board and the Protocol Standards Technical Panel,
the Chief of the DCA Office of Interoperability and Standards, and
designated representatives from the Command and Control Technical
Center, the DCA Plans and Programs Directorate, the Command and Control
Systems Directorate, the Services, JINTACCS, TRI-TAC, the OJCS, and
Defense agencies.  Ex-officio members will be provided by the Office of
the Chief Scientist, DCA, and the National Communications System (NCS).

        b.  Systems Engineering Directorate.  The DCA Deputy Director
for Systems Engineering (DCA Code 1000) is responsible for the technical
review, evaluation and testing of proposed standards and specifications.
The Systems Engineering Directorate will provide standards quidance and
systems engineering expertise on the technical aspects of protocols.
This Directorate will evaluate and monitor federal, national and
international standards developments to ensure compatibility between
external standards developments and evolving DoD protocol standards.
This Directorate will oversee a total DoD RDTE program in protocol
standardization, will define and manage a DCA RDTE effort in support of
Executive Agent funcitons and will provide appropriate test bed
facilities to support testing activities.

        c.  Operations and Readiness Directorate.  The DCA Deputy
Director for Operations and Readiness (DCA Code 5000 is responsible for
preparing standard protocol specifications in proper documentation
format, distributing these specifications, maintaining them, and
ensuring compliance with them through appropriate configuration
management control procedures.  The Operations and Readiness directorate
will provide guidance on impacts of proposed new standards and changes
to existing standards on operational DCS elements.  This Directorate
will also maintain a catalog of validated user programs implemented in
acordance with standard protocol specifications.  This Directorate will
also provide network facilities to support testing efforts and manage
O&M contracts that provide support to the Executive Agent.

        d.  Protocol Configuration Control Board (PCCB).  The PCCB will
advise and assist the Operations and Readiness Directorate in
configuration control of standard DoD data network protocols, and will
serve as a forum for identifying and evaluating requirements for new
protocol standards or capabilities.  The PCCB will be chaired by a
representative from the Operations and Readiness Directorate.



Membership will include representatives of the Services, Defense
Agencies, TRI-TAC Office, JINTACCS and the following DCA components:
the Systems Engineering Directorate, the Plans and Programs Directorate,
the Command and Control Systems Directorate and the Command and Control
Technical Center.

        e.  Protocol Standards Technical Panel (PSTP).  The PSTP will
assist the DCA Systems Engineering Directorate in accomplishing the
technical functions of the Executive Agent.  The panel will be chaired
by a representative of the Systems Engineering Directorate.  Membership
will consist of representatives from the DCA Office of Interoperability
and Standards, the Operations and Readiness Directorate, the Plans and
programs Directorate, the Command and Control Systems Directoraite, the
Command and Control Technical Center, and technical experts selected by
the Services, JINTACCS, TRI-TAC and Defense Agencies.  Ex-officio
members will be provided by the Office of the Chief Scientist and the
National Communications System (NCS), and will be invited from the
Intelligence Community (IC) Staff and from the National Bureau of
Standards (NBS).

        f.  DCA Interoperability and Standards Office.  The functions of
the DCA Interoperability  and Standards Office stem from the DCA
charter, DoD Directive 5105.19, which directs DCA to develop standards
for the DCS.  The functions are further elaborated in a 23 January 1969
OASD memorandum which assigns DCA the responsibility for development of
long-haul communications standards for the DoD, and in DoD Directives
4120.3 and 4120.3M which prescribe policies and procedures for the
Defense Standardization and Specification Program (DSSP).  In accordance
with these responsiblities, the DCA Office of Interoperability and
Standards, Code R110, will have the responsibility for reviewing
proposed protocol standards for DoD long-haul communications.  These
processes will be accomplished in accordance with the procedures
established under the Defense Standardization and Specification Program
(DSSP) and will be based upon a clear delineation of valid requirements.
This office will closely monitor and evaluate the development of federal
and nongovernment standards in order to adopt such standards where
appropriate and to minimize the differences between such standards and
DoD standards to the greatest possible extent.

        g.  Air Force Directorate of Computer Resources.  A 17 December
1965 OASD memorandum assigned USAF the responsibility for developing
computer standards for the Department of Defense.  In accordance with
these responsibilities, the Air Force Directorate of Computer Resources
(AF/ACDX) will have the responsibility for coordinating with the
Department of Defense computer standards community those draft data
computer equipment.  This coordination will be accomplished in
accordance with the provisions of the Memorandum of Understanding
between HQ USAF/ACDX,the DCA (Code R110), and the US Army
(Communications, Research and Development Command), of 5 April 1974.

     7.  Required Resources.  The DCA, as the Executive Agent, will
apply available facility resources to support the above functions but
will require additional dollars and personal resources.



        a.  Facilities.

            (1)  Test bed facilities required to support the above
functions are available within the Hybrid Simulation Facility (HSF) at
the Defense Communications Engineering Center -- e.g., the Experimental
Data Network (EDN).  Enhancements which may be required to support the
functions of the Executive Agent will be handled under normal HSF
upgrade procedures.

            (2)  Network facilities required to support the above
functions are available within ARPANET.

        b.  Dollars.

            (1)  RDTE funds required to support the above RDTE functions
can be made available within the DCS RDTE appropriation.  Some
augmentation of funds in the out years may be necessary.

            (2)  O&M funds which will be required for facilities and
contractor support will be identified and justified under normal
budgetary procedures.

        c.  Personnel.

            (1)  Personnel needed to staff the Steering Group, the PSTP
and the PCCB will be made available from the DCA, the Services and other
Defense Agencies on a part-time basis.

            (2)  Additional personnel which will be required to perform
the detailed management and technical support within the DCA Systems
Engineering and Operations and Readiness Directorates remain to be
identified.





                          EXECUTIVE AGENT FOR
                    STANDARDIZATION OF HOST-TO-HOST
                     DATA COMMUNICATIONS PROTOCOLS

                                    
                         +---------------+                            
                         |EXECUTIVE AGENT|                            
                         |               |                            
                         |  DIRECTOR, DCA|                            
                         +---------------+                            
                                  |                                   
                                  |                                   
                                  |                                   
                                  |          +====================+   
                                  |          |PROTOCOL STANDARDS  |   
                                  |----------|STEERING GROUP      |   
                                  |          +====================+   
                                  |                                   
            ------------------------------------------                
            |                                        |                
 +-------------------------+            +-------------------------+   
 |NEW PROTOCOL STANDARDS   |            |PROTOCOL                 |   
 |REVIEW AND EVALUATION    |            |CONFIGURATION CONTROL    |   
 |                         |            |                         |   
 |   DCA SYSTEM ENGINEERING|            |   DCA OPERATIONS AND    |   
 |   DIRECTORATE           |            |   READINESS DIRECTORATE |   
 +-------------------------+            +-------------------------+   
  |                                      |                            
  |                                      |                            
  |   +=====================+            |   +======================+ 
  |   |   PROTOCOL STANDARDS|            |   |PROTOCOL CONFIGURATION| 
  |---|   TECHNICAL PANEL   |            |---|CONTROL BOARD         | 
      +=====================+                +======================+ 

+--+
|  |  DIRECT DCA RESPONSIBILITIES
+--+

+==+
|  |  COORDINATION/REVIEW PANELS
+==+

                               FIGURE 1.

