Internet Engineering Task Force                          Fernando Cuervo
INTERNET DRAFT                                           Nortel Networks
July 30, 1999                                          Christian Huitema
Expires January 30,2000                           Telcordia Technologies
<draft-ietf-megaco-protocol-03.txt>                          Keith Kelly
                                                                NetSpeak
                                                             Brian Rosen
                                                            FORE Systems
                                                             Paul Sijben
                                                     Lucent Technologies
                                                           Eric Zimmerer
                                                  Level 3 Communications


                            MEGACO Protocol




Status of this document

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.



IMPORTANT NOTE

In accordance with agreements reached between IETF and ITU, the text of
the protocol, IETF version 03, is found at:
ftp://standards.nortelnetworks.com/megaco/docs/Oslo99/megacoHGCP9.pdf





Cuervo, Huitema, Kelly, Rosen, Sijben, Zimmerer                 [Page 1]





Internet draft              MEGACO Protocol                July 30, 1999


Abstract

MEGACO/Recommendation H.248 defines the protocols used between elements
of a physically decomposed multimedia gateway.  There are no functional
differences from a system view between a decomposed gateway, with dis-
tributed sub-components potentially on more than one physical devices,
and a monolithic gateway.

This document does not define how gateways, multipoint control units or
integrated voice response units (IVRs) work.  Instead it creates a gen-
eral framework that is suitable for these applications.

Packet network interfaces may include IP, ATM or possibly others.  The
interfaces will support a variety of SCN signalling systems, including
tone signalling, ISDN, ISUP, QSIG, and GSM.  National variants of these
signaling systems will be supported where applicable.



































Cuervo, Huitema, Kelly, Rosen, Sijben, Zimmerer                 [Page 2]


