
Internet-Draft         ATM Accounting Information              July 1996




                Accounting Information for ATM Networks

                   draft-ietf-atommib-atmacct-00.txt

                              31 July 1996


                            Keith McCloghrie
                          Cisco Systems, Inc.
                             kzm@cisco.com

                             Juha Heinanen
                          Telecom Finland Inc.
                          jh@lohi.dat.tele.fi

                              Wedge Greene
                   MCI Telecommunications Corporation
                           wedgeg@mcimail.com

                              Anil Prasad
                            StrataCom, Inc.
                           aprasad@strata.com




Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
``1id-abstracts.txt'' listing contained in the Internet- Drafts Shadow
Directories on ds.internic.net (US East Coast), nic.nordu.net (Europe),
ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast), or munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim).






Expires January 1997                                            [Page 1]





Internet-Draft         ATM Accounting Information              July 1996


1.  Introduction

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in the Internet
community.  A separate memo [8] defines managed objects, in a manner
independent of the type of network, for controlling the selection,
collection and storage of accounting information into files for later
retrieval via a file transfer protocol. This memo defines a set of ATM-
specific accounting information which can be collected for connections
on ATM networks.



2.  The SNMP Network Management Framework

They are: The SNMP Network Management Framework presently consists of
three major components.  They are:

  the SMI, described in RFC 1902 [1] - the mechanisms used for
  describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.

  the MIB-II, STD 17, RFC 1213 [2] - the core set of managed objects for
  the Internet suite of protocols.

  the protocol, RFC 1157 [3] and/or RFC 1905 [4], - the protocol for
  accessing managed objects.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.

2.1.  Object Definitions

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) defined in the
SMI.  In particular, each object type is named by an OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
an administratively assigned name.  The object type together with an
object instance serves to uniquely identify a specific instantiation of
the object.  For human convenience, we often use a textual string,
termed the descriptor, to refer to the object type.










Expires January 1997                                            [Page 2]





Internet-Draft         ATM Accounting Information              July 1996


3.  Overview

In [8], the items of accounting data to be collected are specified as a
set of objects.  Which objects are contained in such a set is selectable
by an administrator through the specification of one or more (subtree,
list) tuples, where the set of objects to be collected is the union of
the subsets specified by each tuple:

    'subtree' specifies a OBJECT IDENTIFIER value such that every object
        in the subset is named by the subtree's value appended with a
        single additional sub-identifier.

    'list' specifies an OCTET STRING value, such that if the N-th bit of
        the string's value is set then the the subset contains the
        object named by appending N as a single additional sub-
        identifier to the subtree.

This memo specifies such a subtree containing a set of objects defining
items of accounting information which are applicable to ATM connections.

Note that all of the objects defined here have a MAX-ACCESS clause of
not-accessible, since their purpose is not to be read/written by SNMP,
but rather, to be the syntax and semantics of the set of information
which can be represented within a single (subtree, list) tuple.


























Expires January 1997                                            [Page 3]





Internet-Draft         ATM Accounting Information              July 1996


4.  Definitions

ATM-ACCOUNTING-INFORMATION-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, OBJECT-IDENTITY,
    experimental, Integer32,
    Counter64                                     FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    DisplayString, DateAndTime                    FROM SNMPv2-TC
    AtmAddr                                       FROM ATM-TC-MIB;


atmAccountingInformationMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9607202000Z"
    ORGANIZATION "IETF AToM MIB Working Group"
    CONTACT-INFO "
                  Keith McCloghrie
                  Cisco Systems, Inc.
                  170 West Tasman Drive,
                  San Jose CA 95134-1706.
                  Phone: +1 408 526 5260
                  Email: kzm@cisco.com"
    DESCRIPTION
            "The MIB module for identifying items of accounting
            information which are applicable to ATM connections."
    ::= { experimental xx }

atmAcctngMIBObjects OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { atmAccountingInformationMIB 1 }


-- Definitions of objects for use in specifying ATM accounting
-- data to be collected

atmAcctngDataObjects OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This identifier defines a subtree under which various
            objects are defined such that a set of objects to be
            collected as ATM accounting data can be specified as a
            (subtree, list) tuple using this identifier as the subtree."
    ::= { atmAccountingInformationMIB 1 }









Expires January 1997                                            [Page 4]





Internet-Draft         ATM Accounting Information              July 1996


-- Objects defined under the atmAcctngDataObjects subtree
--
-- In each case the semantics of the object are interpreted with
-- respect to the creation/storage of an accounting record for a
-- particular connection on a particular interface.

atmAcctngConnectionType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER { pvc(1),
                          pvp(2),
                          svcIncoming(3),
                          svcOutgoing(4),
                          svpIncoming(5),
                          svpOutgoing(6),
                          spvcInitiator(7),
                          spvcTarget(8),
                          spvpInitiator(9),
                          spvpTarget(10) }
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The type of connection."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 1 }

atmAcctngCastType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER { p2p(1), p2mp(2) }
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An indication of whether the connection is point-to-point
            or point-to-multipoint."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 2 }

atmAcctngIfName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A textual name for the interface on which the data for the
            connection was collected.  If the local SNMP agent supports
            the object ifName, the value of this object must be
            identical that of ifName in the conceptual row of the
            ifTable corresponding to this interface."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 3 }

atmAcctngIfAlias OBJECT-TYPE





Expires January 1997                                            [Page 5]





Internet-Draft         ATM Accounting Information              July 1996


    SYNTAX      DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The 'alias' name for the interface as specified by a
            network manager, e.g., via a management set operation to
            modify the relevant instance of the ifAlias object.  Note
            that in contrast to ifIndex, ifAlias provides a non-volatile
            'handle' for the interface, the value of which is retained
            across agent reboots."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 4 }

atmAcctngVpi OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..4095)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The VPI used for the connection."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 5 }

atmAcctngVci OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The VCI used for the connection."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 6 }

atmAcctngCallingParty OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AtmAddr
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The connection's calling party.  If unknown (e.g., for a
            PVC), then the value of this object is the zero-length
            string."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 7 }

atmAcctngCalledParty OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AtmAddr
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The connection's called party.  If unknown (e.g., for a
            PVC), then the value of this object is the zero-length





Expires January 1997                                            [Page 6]





Internet-Draft         ATM Accounting Information              July 1996


            string."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 8 }

atmAcctngCallReference OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OCTET STRING (SIZE(0..3))
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The connection's call reference value.  If unknown (e.g.,
            for a PVC), then the value of this object is the zero-length
            string."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 9 }

atmAcctngStartTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The time when the connection was established."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 10 }

atmAcctngCollectionTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The time at which the data in this record was collected."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 11 }

atmAcctngCollectMode OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER { onRelease(1),
                          periodically(2),
                          onCommand(3) }
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The reason why this connection data was collected."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 12 }

atmAcctngReleaseCause OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "If the connection data was collected because of the release





Expires January 1997                                            [Page 7]





Internet-Draft         ATM Accounting Information              July 1996


            of an SVC, then this is the cause code in the Release
            message for the connection; otherwise, this object has the
            value zero."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 13 }

atmAcctngServiceCategory OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER { other(1), cbr(2), vbrRt(3), vbrNrt(4),
                          abr(5), ubr(6), unknown(7) }
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The connection's service category."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 14 }

atmAcctngTransmittedCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of cells transmitted by this switch on this
            connection."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 15 }

atmAcctngTransmittedClp0Cells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of cells with CLP=0 transmitted by this switch
            on this connection."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 16 }

atmAcctngReceivedCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of cells received by this switch on this
            connection."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 17 }

atmAcctngReceivedClp0Cells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current





Expires January 1997                                            [Page 8]





Internet-Draft         ATM Accounting Information              July 1996


    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of cells with CLP=0 received by this switch on
            this connection."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 18 }

atmAcctngTransmitTrafficDescriptorType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OBJECT IDENTIFIER
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The traffic descriptor type (as defined in RFC 1695 and its
            successors) in the direction in which the switch transmits
            cells on the connection."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 19 }

atmAcctngTransmitTrafficDescriptorParam1 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The first traffic descriptor parameter in the direction in
            which this switch transmits cells on this connection.
            Interpretation of this parameter is dependent on the value
            of atmAcctngTransmitTrafficDescriptorType."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 20 }

atmAcctngTransmitTrafficDescriptorParam2 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The second traffic descriptor parameter in the direction in
            which this switch transmits cells on this connection.
            Interpretation of this parameter is dependent on the value
            of atmAcctngTransmitTrafficDescriptorType."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 21 }

atmAcctngTransmitTrafficDescriptorParam3 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The third traffic descriptor parameter in the direction in
            which this switch transmits cells on this connection.
            Interpretation of this parameter is dependent on the value





Expires January 1997                                            [Page 9]





Internet-Draft         ATM Accounting Information              July 1996


            of atmAcctngTransmitTrafficDescriptorType."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 22 }

atmAcctngTransmitTrafficDescriptorParam4 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The fourth traffic descriptor parameter in the direction in
            which this switch transmits cells on this connection.
            Interpretation of this parameter is dependent on the value
            of atmAcctngTransmitTrafficDescriptorType."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 23 }

atmAcctngTransmitTrafficDescriptorParam5 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The fifth traffic descriptor parameter in the direction in
            which this switch transmits cells on this connection.
            Interpretation of this parameter is dependent on the value
            of atmAcctngTransmitTrafficDescriptorType."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 24 }

atmAcctngReceiveTrafficDescriptorType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OBJECT IDENTIFIER
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The traffic descriptor type (as defined in RFC 1695 and its
            successors) in the direction in which this switch receives
            cells on this connection."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 25 }

atmAcctngReceiveTrafficDescriptorParam1 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The first traffic descriptor parameter in the direction in
            which this switch receives cells on this connection.
            Interpretation of this parameter is dependent on the value
            of atmAcctngReceiveTrafficDescriptorType."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 26 }





Expires January 1997                                           [Page 10]





Internet-Draft         ATM Accounting Information              July 1996


atmAcctngReceiveTrafficDescriptorParam2 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The second traffic descriptor parameter in the direction in
            which this switch receives cells on this connection.
            Interpretation of this parameter is dependent on the value
            of atmAcctngReceiveTrafficDescriptorType."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 27 }

atmAcctngReceiveTrafficDescriptorParam3 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The third traffic descriptor parameter in the direction in
            which this switch receives cells on this connection.
            Interpretation of this parameter is dependent on the value
            of atmAcctngReceiveTrafficDescriptorType."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 28 }

atmAcctngReceiveTrafficDescriptorParam4 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The fourth traffic descriptor parameter in the direction in
            which this switch receives cells on this connection.
            Interpretation of this parameter is dependent on the value
            of atmAcctngReceiveTrafficDescriptorType."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 29 }

atmAcctngReceiveTrafficDescriptorParam5 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The fifth traffic descriptor parameter in the direction in
            which this switch receives cells on this connection.
            Interpretation of this parameter is dependent on the value
            of atmAcctngReceiveTrafficDescriptorType."
    ::= { atmAcctngDataObjects 30 }

END





Expires January 1997                                           [Page 11]





Internet-Draft         ATM Accounting Information              July 1996


5.  Acknowledgements

6.  References

[1]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, "Structure of Management Information for version 2
     of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902,
     January 1996.

[2]  McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II", STD 17,
     RFC 1213, March 1991.

[3]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin, "Simple Network
     Management Protocol", RFC 1157, May 1990.

[4]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, "Protocol Operations for version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

[5]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, "Transport Mappings for version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1906, January 1996.

[6]  Ahmed, M., and K. Tesink, "Definitions of Managed Objects for ATM
     Management using SMIv2", RFC 1695, August 1994.

[7]  Noto, M., and K. Tesink, "Definitions of Textual Conventions and
     OBJECT-IDENTITY Objects for ATM Management", Internet Draft,
     February 1996.

[8]  McCloghrie, K., Heinanen, J., Greene, W., and A. Prasad, "Managed
     Objects for Controlling the Collection and Storage of Accounting
     Information for Connection-Oriented Networks" Internet Draft, July
     1996.















Expires January 1997                                           [Page 12]





Internet-Draft         ATM Accounting Information              July 1996


7.  Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.


8.  Authors' Addresses

     Keith McCloghrie
     Cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive,
     San Jose CA 95134-1706.
     Phone: +1 408 526 5260
     Email: kzm@cisco.com

     Juha Heinanen
     Telecom Finland Inc.
     PO Box 228
     SF-33101 Tampere
     Finland
     Phone: +358 49 500 958
     EMail: jh@lohi.dat.tele.fi

     Wedge Greene
     MCI Telecommunications Corporation
     901 International Parkway
     Richardson, Texas 75081
     Phone: 214-498-1232
     Email: wedgeg@mcimail.com

     Anil Prasad
     StrataCom, Inc.
     1400 Parkmoor Avenue
     San Jose, CA 95126
     Phone: 408-882-7209
     E-mail: aprasad@strata.com















Expires January 1997                                           [Page 13]





Internet-Draft         ATM Accounting Information              July 1996


Table of Contents


1 Introduction ....................................................    2
2 The SNMP Network Management Framework ...........................    2
2.1 Object Definitions ............................................    2
3 Overview ........................................................    3
4 Definitions .....................................................    4
5 Acknowledgements ................................................   12
6 References ......................................................   12
7 Security Considerations .........................................   13
8 Authors' Addresses ..............................................   13






































Expires January 1997                                           [Page 14]
