
NEMO Working Group                                        T. J. Kniveton
Internet Draft                                           Jari T. Malinen
Expires:  May 1, 2003                                  Vijay Devarapalli
                                                      Charles E. Perkins
                                                                   Nokia
                                                        November 1, 2002

                    Mobile Router Tunneling Protocol
                      draft-kniveton-mobrtr-03.txt


Status of This Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with
all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at:
     http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt
The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at:
     http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

This document is a submission by the NEMO Working Group of the Internet
Engineering Task Force (IETF).  Comments should be submitted to the
nemo@nal.motlabs.com mailing list.

Distribution of this memo is unlimited.


Abstract

This document describes how to support mobile networks with Mobile
IP or Mobile IPv6 using reverse tunneling.  It provides this support
capability with no modifications to Mobile IP or routing protocol
signaling, but also defines new extensions to ease in the implementation
of network mobility.  There are two described scenarios of mobile router
support, consumer mode, and fully enabled mode.  In the former, the
mobile router is not allowed to use routing protocol signaling with the
home agent, but performs routing for subnet(s) assigned to it.  In the
latter mode, both the home agent and the mobile router use a routing
protocol in the same manner as fixed routers.







Kniveton, et al.              Expires May 1, 2003               [Page 1]

Internet Draft        Network Mobility Protocol         November 1, 2002




                                Contents


Status of This Memo                                                    1

Abstract                                                               1

 1. Introduction                                                       2

 2. Terms                                                              4

 3. Solution Overview                                                  5
     3.1. Application Scenarios . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8
     3.2. Mapping to requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    8

 4. Protocol Messages and Signaling                                    9
     4.1. Explicit Signaling for IPv6 nodes . . . . . . . . . . . .    9
           4.1.1. R-bit . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
           4.1.2. Mobile Network Option . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   10
     4.2. Implicit Signaling  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   12

 5. Alternate Solutions                                               12

 6. Support for Dynamic Routing Protocol                              13
     6.1. Processing the Tunneled Routing Messages  . . . . . . . .   14
     6.2. Forwarding Packets to MR's subnet . . . . . . . . . . . .   14

 7. Security Considerations                                           14

 8. IANA Considerations                                               15

 9. Intellectual Property Right Considerations                        15

10. Acknowledgements                                                  15

Authors' Addresses                                                    16

Full Copyright Statement                                              16


1. Introduction

This document describes the problem of mobile router support and
requirements for solving this problem.  It then shows how to solve
this problem and support mobile networks with Mobile IP [9] or Mobile
IPv6 [5].  The document describes two categorical scenarios, static
(``consumer'') and dynamic (``fully enabled'') mobile routers, and



Kniveton, et al.              Expires May 1, 2003               [Page 2]

Internet Draft        Network Mobility Protocol         November 1, 2002


outlines how these scenarios are possible using unmodified Mobile IP or
Mobile IPv6, with or without a dynamic routing protocol.

Within the context of this document, a Mobile Router is defined as a
node which operates as a Mobile Node as detailed in Mobile IP or Mobile
IPv6, but has the additional capability of routing between its point
of attachment (Care-of Address), and a network fragment (subnet) which
moves with the mobile router.

An architecture to enable mobile routers is required to:

     1 support unmodified Mobile IP or Mobile IPv6 signaling.

     2 support communication to or from nodes on subnetwork(s) connected
       to and moving with the mobile router.

     3 support both fixed and mobile nodes in the network moving with
       the mobile router.  Fixed nodes are unmodified IP or IPv6 hosts
       or routers which do not necessarily have any mobility support
       nor any knowledge of the mechanisms described in this document.
       Mobile nodes are nodes supporting Mobile IP or Mobile IPv6 with
       no knowledge of the mechanisms described in this document.

     4 support arbitrary nesting level of mobile routers; i.e., support
       connection (into the mobile router's moving network) of another
       mobile router and its associated network.

     5 support static configuration; that is, the mobile router need not
       have a dynamic routing protocol running on it.

     6 support dynamic configuration; that is, the mobile router may run
       a dynamic routing protocol and communicate with such a routing
       protocol to signal its home agent.

     7 allow routing entities such as the home agent and mobile router
       to be able to run these dynamic routing protocols with no
       modifications to their signaling.

     8 support an end-to-end security model for mobility where no
       intermediate node or router alters mobility state in mobile
       nodes, routers, or their respective home agents and correspondent
       nodes.

Mobile router support described here is NOT assumed to:

    -  solve the problems resulting from excessively fast relative
       topology changes.  The outcome of implementing a mobile network
       as described here will inherit the characteristics of Mobile IP
       and the routing protocol chosen, and thus be able to support



Kniveton, et al.              Expires May 1, 2003               [Page 3]

Internet Draft        Network Mobility Protocol         November 1, 2002


       movement and topology changes to the same extent as those
       protocols.  Hence, any routing protocol which would be used to
       support mobile routers is assumed to be suitable for the rate of
       change to topology in anticipated usage scenarios.

    -  solve the problem of scalability resulting from fixed
       network connectivity of a cascaded mesh of routers (and their
       subnetworks) that contain non-aggregable, host-based routes.


2. Terms

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 [1].

In addition, this document uses the following terms:

      Fixed Node
               A host not capable moving from its home link to other
               links.  A fixed node is capable of sending and receiving
               packets, that is, being a source or destination of
               traffic, but not a forwarder of it.

      Fixed Router
               A router not capable of moving from its home link to
               other links.  A fixed router is capable of forwarding
               packets between two or more interfaces, and possibly
               running a dynamic routing protocol modifying the state by
               which to do packet forwarding.

      Mobile Node
               A host moving from its home link to other links.  A
               mobile node is capable of sending and receiving packets,
               that is, being a source or destination of traffic, but
               not a forwarder of it.

      Mobile Router
               A router moving from its home link to other links.  A
               mobile router is capable of forwarding packets between
               two or more interfaces, and possibly running a dynamic
               routing protocol modifying the state by which to do
               packet forwarding.

This terminology is intended to conform to those that have been used in
IPv6, Mobile IPv6, and other Internet protocols [3, 5].






Kniveton, et al.              Expires May 1, 2003               [Page 4]

Internet Draft        Network Mobility Protocol         November 1, 2002


3. Solution Overview

This document outlines a solution which satisfies the above
requirements.  The one-digit prefixes are assumed to be legal prefixes
for globally routable links, e.g,.  with prefix length 64.


                     +----+       +-------+
                     | MN |       | HA_MN |
                     +--+-+  1::  +---+---+
                       2+-------------+3
                                      |
        +-------+2 2:: +-------------------+ 3:: 2+-------+
        | CN_MN |------|     Internet      |------| CN_MR |
        +-------+      +------------ GW ---+      +-------+
                             4::      |
                       2+-------------+3
                     +--+-+       +---+---+
                     | MR |       | HA_MR |
                     +--+-+       +-------+
                    5:: |1
                ----------
                2|      |3
            +--+-+   +--+-+
            | FN |   | FR |
            +--+-+   +--+-+
                    6:: |1
                ----------


            Figure 1: Mobile node and mobile router at home.


In Figure 1, a mobile node (MN) 1::2 is at home on its home link where
we have its home agent 1::3 (HA_MN). A mobile router (MR) 4::2 is at
its home.  It also provides routing for an access link 5::, on which
there is a fixed node (FN). MR also provides access for access link 6::,
which is behind a fixed fouter (FR). MR, GW, and HA are supposed to be
routers, so that they at least forward packets.  They may also run the
same dynamic routing protocol.

In Figure 2 we see the bindings when MN moves away from its home to link
6::, after MN has signaled its home agent (HA_MN) and its correspondent
node (CN_MN), assuming mobile nodes or routers get the same host number
as in their home addresses.

In Figure 3 we see the bindings when MR moves away from its home
link, to link 7::, and it has updated its home agent (HA_MR), and its
correspondent node (CN_MR) on its new location.



Kniveton, et al.              Expires May 1, 2003               [Page 5]

Internet Draft        Network Mobility Protocol         November 1, 2002


                                  +-------+
                                  | HA_MN | 1::2->6::2
                             1::  +---+---+
                         -------------|3
                                      |
        +-------+2 2:: +-------------------+ 3:: 2+-------+
        | CN_MN |------|     Internet      |------| CN_MR |
        +-------+      +------------ GW ---+      +-------+
       1::2->6::2            4::      |
                       2+-------------+3
                     +--+-+       +---+---+
                     | MR |       | HA_MR |
                     +--+-+       +-------+
                    5:: |1
                ----------
                2|      |3
            +--+-+   +--+-+
            | FN |   | FR |
            +--+-+   +--+-+
                    6:: |1
                --------+-
                        |2
                     +--+-+
                     | MN |
                     +----+


                   Figure 2: Mobile node not at home.



Both MN and MR hence use unmodified Mobile IPv6, except that there are
minor implications to the packet forwarding implementation of MR and
HA_MR. Basically, MR and HA_MR have a bidirectional tunnel between them.
These rules are simply that

    -  MR locally knows it is a mobile router and when not at home it
       installs an encapsulation interface towards its home agent.
       Through this interface, MR forwards (reverse-tunnels) all packets
       not originated from MR towards its HA. For packets originated
       from MR the behavior is as if MR were a normal MN; they get
       forwarded on the visited link, except if the packets are targeted
       to the home link; then they get reverse-tunneled to HA. Hence,
       when arriving at a visited link, MR injects a default route and
       a network route of its home link, towards the reverse tunnel it
       creates pointing to its home agent, in addition to a default
       route to MR's default router on the visited link.





Kniveton, et al.              Expires May 1, 2003               [Page 6]

Internet Draft        Network Mobility Protocol         November 1, 2002


                                  +-------+
                                  | HA_MN | 1::2->6::2
                             1::  +---+---+
                         -------------|3
                                      |
        +-------+2 2:: +-------------------+ 3:: 2+-------+
        | CN_MN |------|     Internet      |------| CN_MR |
        +-------+      ++----------- GW ---+      +-------+
       3::2->6::2       | 7::    4::  |           4::2->7::2
                       2+----   ------+3
                     +--+-+       +---+---+
                     | MR |       | HA_MR | 4::2->7::2
                     +--+-+       +-------+
                    5:: |1
                ----------
                2|      |3
            +--+-+   +--+-+
            | FN |   | FR |
            +--+-+   +--+-+
                    6:: |1
                --------+-
                        |2
                     +--+-+
                     | MN |
                     +----+


    Figure 3: Mobile node and mobile router both on a visited link.



    -  If MR, HA_MR, and GW were running a dynamic routing protocol,
       MR redirects control traffic of this protocol towards HA_MR,
       tunneling these packets through the reverse tunnel pointing to
       HA_MR. The dynamic routing protocol updates the routing state
       between GW, HA_MR, and MR, so that next hops between GW and MR
       now go through intermediate router HA_MR. There MAY be expedition
       of routing state update, triggered by registration of MR with its
       home agent.

    -  If it is not desired that MR runs a dynamic routing protocol,
       HA_MR MUST inject routing entries for all mobile links behind
       MR, using MR's home address as the next hop.  That is, in our
       example, HA_MR would inject network routes for 5::  and 6::  with
       next hop 4::2.

    -  When HA_MR captures a data packet forwarded towards MR, its
       forwarding engine then does a route lookup for this packet.  If
       the returned route has MR's home address as the next hop, it then



Kniveton, et al.              Expires May 1, 2003               [Page 7]

Internet Draft        Network Mobility Protocol         November 1, 2002


       does a binding cache lookup for this next hop, and tunnels the
       packet to the registered care-of-address of MR.


3.1. Application Scenarios

There are two application scenarios for this proposal, one for
restricted ``consumer'' mobile router support, and one for ``fully
enabled'' mobile router support.  In the former, HA_MR injects static
routes for a restricted set of links behind each MR, when MR registers
with its HA. These are statically configured for each MR in its HA. In
this mode, MR cannot run dynamic routing protocol and arbitrarily modify
provider's routing cloud state.  In the latter scenario, MR is a genuine
router running dynamic routing protocol.  This provides support e.g. for
the case when provider's router moves to a visited link, or there is
exterior routing protocol running between MR and its GW, that is, when
the mobile router support is ``fully enabled''.


3.2. Mapping to requirements

With the simple scenario presented above, we can support the
requirements stated above.  The solution

     1 supports unmodified Mobile IP or Mobile IPv6 signaling.

     2 supports communication to or from nodes on subnetwork(s)
       connected to and moving with the mobile router.

     3 supports both fixed and mobile nodes in the network moving with
       the mobile router.  Since links moving with MR do not change as
       a result of movement, and their traffic get forwarded via MR's
       home address, these nodes do not need separate binding updates
       to any nodes.  Binding-triggered route updates, as stated above,
       keep them connected in a timely manner as a result of standard
       routing.

     4 supports arbitrary nesting level of mobile routers.  MR support
       provides transparency where second-level MR only sets up a tunnel
       to its HA, this tunnel going inside tunnel set up by first-level
       MR. This can then applied to subsequent levels, inductively.

     5 supports static configuration; that is, the mobile router need
       not have a dynamic routing protocol running on it.  This is
       provided by the ``consumer'' scenario.

     6 supports dynamic configuration; This is provided by the
       ``fully-enabled'' scenario.




Kniveton, et al.              Expires May 1, 2003               [Page 8]

Internet Draft        Network Mobility Protocol         November 1, 2002


     7 allows routing entities to run the dynamic routing protocols
       with no modifications to their signaling.  Routing protocols are
       not affected, though there can be route injections triggered by
       binding updates from MR.

     8 supports the end-to-end security model for mobility.  No
       intermediate node or router alters mobility state in mobile
       nodes, routers, or their respective home agents and correspondent
       nodes, since nodes do not send any additional binding updates on
       behalf of other nodes.

However, this solution has one drawback:  it has less than full route
optimization for the packets as they get forwarded through two-way
tunneling via MR's home agent.  Route optimization is available for MN
in that it can let its CNs know its CoA. However, these packets pass
through the tunnel between MR and HA_MR. Route optimization is, however,
fully available for communication between MR and its CNs.  With this
restriction, however, we can support arbitrary links behind MRs, nested
MNs, MRs, stub- and transit networks.


4. Protocol Messages and Signaling

This Mobile Router solution requires support in Home Agents and Mobile
Routers, since both entities must understand that a tunnel is to be
established, and packets for the mobile network must be routed through
that tunnel.  Part of the support includes signaling, which can be
implicit (meaning that no changes to Mobile IP are necessary), or
explicit (allowing greater communication of status conditions and
specificity of prefix mappings).

In general, it is preferable to explicitly signal the intention to
change location of mobile network route segments.  However, it may not
always be possible to specify changes to other protocols.  Therefore,
both modes of signaling will be included.  It is possible to support
both modes on a home agent and mobile router.


4.1. Explicit Signaling for IPv6 nodes

For IPv6 implementations, the following messages are suggested to be
used in signaling the intention to establish a Mobile Tunnel.  These
messages are new protocol messages that are included in Mobile IPv6
Binding Updates and Binding Acknowledgements.








Kniveton, et al.              Expires May 1, 2003               [Page 9]

Internet Draft        Network Mobility Protocol         November 1, 2002


4.1.1. R-bit

This draft extends Mobile IPv6 to include a Mobile Router bit (R) in the
Binding Update message.

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
                                   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
                                   |A|H|S|D|L|R|    Reserved       |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |          Sequence #           |          Reserved             |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                            Lifetime                           |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                                                               |
   +                                                               +
   |                                                               |
   +                           Home Address                        +
   |                                                               |
   +                                                               +
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                                                               |
   .                                                               .
   .                         Mobility options                      .
   .                                                               .
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

       R-bit The R-bit is located at the 21st bit of the binding update
             as depicted.  It should be set to 1 only in BUs sent to the
             HA.

             The R-bit indicates that the home agent should create a
             route to tunnel the mobile network packets to the CoA
             included in the Binding Update.

             If the R-bit is set to 0 and a previous static route
             existed, the HA should delete it and cease forwarding
             packets to the mobile network.  The MR can use R=0 to cease
             routing functionality and, in effect, become a MN.


4.1.2. Mobile Network Option

The Mobile Network Option is a mobility option included in the mobile
router's Binding Update message to specify the prefix(es) associated
with the MR. The Mobile Network Option is also used as a mobility option
in Binding Acknowledgement messages returned by the home agent to



Kniveton, et al.              Expires May 1, 2003              [Page 10]

  Internet Draft        Network Mobility Protocol         November 1, 2002


  specify the prefix(es) which have routing established.  Mobile Network
  Options are only used in Binding Update messages with R=1 from a mobile
  router to its home agent, and Binding Acknowledgements from the home
  agent to the mobile router.  These two messages are distinguished by the
  value of the Action field.

  The mobile router may request specific prefixes for which the HA to
  establish tunnel routes.  Alternatively, if the HA is configured with
  a list of MRs and their mobile network prefixes, the MR may omit the
  Mobile Network Options and ``all prefixes'' is implied -- the HA will
  start forwarding packets for all appropriate mobile network prefixes as
  if Mobile Network Options for all usable prefixes were included in the
  BU.

      0                   1                   2                   3
      0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
     |  Option Type  | Option Length |    Action     |   Prefix Len  |
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
     |                                                               |
     +                                                               +
     |                                                               |
     +                   Mobile Network Prefix                       +
     |                                                               |
     +                                                               +
     |                                                               |
     +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+



   Option Type 6 (TBD by IANA)

 Option Length 18

Action (in BU)   0 = No Action (remove routes)

                 1 = Forward (route through tunnel)

                 2 = Verify (Send ACK if this prefix is mine)

Action (in BA) 100 = OK (Route successfully created)

               101 = Mobile Network Option sent from non-MR

               102 = Invalid prefix (not part of valid address space)

               103 = Prefix not owned by this domain/link

               104 = Prefix not owned by MR which sent this MNO



  Kniveton, et al.              Expires May 1, 2003              [Page 11]

         Internet Draft        Network Mobility Protocol         November 1, 2002


                      105 = Could not create route / insufficient resources

        Prefix Length Length of prefix, in bits (valid range is 1..128)

Mobile Network Prefix Prefix to route.  Any bits after <prefixlen> should be set
                      to 0.

                  Alignment requirement:  This message must be aligned to 8n + 4.

                  Mobile Network Options should be sent by the home agent in
                  response to a binding update which establishes a binding for
                  the first time.  It is not necessary to send them when the MR
                  is updating a binding with a new CoA, or when deregistering a
                  binding / removing a route.


         4.2. Implicit Signaling

         In general, implicit signaling means that signaling is not necessary
         because of the implication of other factors.  When a mobile router sends
         a binding update to its home agent, the home agent knows which prefixes
         are assigned to the router, and it sets up the static route and begins
         forwarding traffic to the mobile network.  The mobile router can test
         that the tunnel is properly established by sending an echo request from
         its CoA to its address on the mobile network.

         With implicit signaling, the home agent keeps a list of mobile routers
         and their associated prefixes.  When a mobile router establishes a
         binding, the home agent goes through all the same steps as in explicit
         signaling (static route setup, and rules for packet forwarding), but
         does not relay any status information to the mobile router.  Thus, the
         effects of routing changes must be learned using existing protocol
         messages, i.e.  ICMP echo request/reply.


         5. Alternate Solutions

         Another solution [4] was previously proposed, and follows a slightly
         different set of requirements.  It includes support for route
         optimization, and requires changes to Mobile IP signaling.  Providing
         a generic scalable solution for the address ownership problem may
         prove to be complicated.  A problem is, how can a mobile router or an
         intermediate agent efficiently authorize multiple fixed and mobile nodes
         to communicate with their peers, when all these may be from multiple
         different domains, and the mobile router is not and end node for their
         communication.  However, if this issue can be solved, or if a controlled
         security environment is feasible, this alternate may provide additional
         benefits when compared to this proposal.




         Kniveton, et al.              Expires May 1, 2003              [Page 12]

Internet Draft        Network Mobility Protocol         November 1, 2002


Other solutions using inter-domain routing protocols may be possible,
depend on the willingness of the routing infrastructure to trust mobile
routers.


6. Support for Dynamic Routing Protocol

In the fully enabled mode, the mobile router (MR) runs a dynamic routing
protocol with its home agent (assumed to be a router) to exchange
up-to-date routing information.  The mobile router continues running
this intra-domain routing protocol even when it moves away from home
and attaches to a visited domain.  One of the requirements listed in
section 1 is to avoid any modifications to the routing protocol.  This
can be done by dynamically modifying the list of interfaces on which
the routing protocol is active.  For example, let us assume a mobile
router used interface 'A' when it was connected to its home network
and was exchanging routing updates through that interface.  When the
mobile router moves and attaches to a visited network with the same
interface, the routing protocol is turned off for that interface.  This
is to prevent the mobile router from advertising the routes in its
mobile subnet to the visited network.  The mobile router then sets up
a encapsulating tunnel to its home agent (HA_MR). This encapsulating
tunnel is then added as a virtual interface to the list of interfaces
on which the routing protocol is active.  The mobile router then
starts sending routing information through this tunnel to the HA_MR.
Most IPv6 intra-domain routing protocols assume link local address to
appear as the source address for routing information messages.  The
encapsulating tunnel takes care of this, by encapsulating the routing
messages in a IP header whose source address is the mobile router's CoA
and the destination address is HA_MR's address.  When HA_MR receives the
tunneled routing message, it decapsulates it and processes the inner
routing message.  The inner routing message appears as if the packet was
sent from a node on the link.

The HA_MR also sets up a similar tunnel to the MR and adds the tunnel to
the list of interfaces on which the routing protocol is active.  HA_MR
then tunnels the routing information it has towards the mobile router.
The mobile router now learns about HA_MR's routing information.

The tunneled packets are sent through a secured channel between the
mobile router and HA_MR. This secured channel is made possible by a
static or a pre-negotiated security association between the mobile
router and its HA_MR. The tunneled routing messages MUST be protected by
Authentication Header [6].  If data confidentiality is required, ESP [7]
SHOULD be used.

Certain routing protocols like OSPFv2 [8]or OSPF for IPv6 [2] exchange
periodic HELLO messages between adjacent routers.  In our case these




Kniveton, et al.              Expires May 1, 2003              [Page 13]

Internet Draft        Network Mobility Protocol         November 1, 2002


periodic messages from the mobile router are sent through this tunnel to
its HA_MR.


6.1. Processing the Tunneled Routing Messages

When the HA_MR receives the routing information from the mobile router
through the bidirectional tunnel, it adds the corresponding routes to
its routing table with the next hop set to the mobile router's address,
in case of IPv6 MR's link local address.  This next hop address is
obtained from the source address of the inner packet.  The HA_MR in
turn propagates this information when it sends routing updates to other
routers on the mobile router's home link.

The HA_MR also needs a binding cache entry for that address which is
the next hop address for the MR's subnet.  In the case of IPv4 this
is created when the MR sends a registration request [?] for its home
address when it moves away from its home link.  In the case of IPv6
HA_MR needs a binding cache entry to the mobile router's link local
address.  This is because the next hop address in the routing table
entry returns the mobile router's link local address.  And to forward
packets to the mobile router's link local address, a binding cache entry
is needed.  A binding cache entry is not created unless HA_MR receives a
binding update from the mobile router.  Therefore the mobile router MUST
send a binding update for its link local address in addition to its home
address.  This is optional in the current Mobile IPv6 [5] specification.


6.2. Forwarding Packets to MR's subnet

Since HA_MR advertised routing reachability information for MR's
subnet, it receives the packets meant for the nodes in the MR's subnet.
Route lookup on HA_MR returns the address of the mobile router as the
next hop address.  By making use of the binding cache entry for the
mobile router's address (link local address in case of IPv6) and the
bi-directional tunnel with the mobile router, HA_MR starts forwarding
packets throught the tunnel to the mobile router.  The mobile router in
turn decapsulates the packet and fowards it on its subnet.


7. Security Considerations

The mechanism described in this draft requires routing messages
exchanged between a mobile router and its home agent to be secured when
the mobile router is not on its home link.  This is done by creaating
a static security association between the mobile router and its home
agent.  This document does not require changes to either Mobile IP or
any routing protocol.  Therefore, it does not introduce any additional
security requirements.



Kniveton, et al.              Expires May 1, 2003              [Page 14]

Internet Draft        Network Mobility Protocol         November 1, 2002


8. IANA Considerations

The following protocol numbers may require allocation from IANA:

    -  The Mobile Network Option is a mobility option in the Mobile IPv6
       mobility header.  The Option Type should be allocated within this
       namespace.


9. Intellectual Property Right Considerations

On IPR related issues, Nokia refers to its statement on patent
licensing.  Please see http://www.ietf.org/ietf/IPR/NOKIA.


10. Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank the following individuals who have made
suggestions to improve the text of this draft which were incorporated:

Marco Molteni (Cisco) Tapio Suihko (Technical Research Centre of
Finland)


References

   [1] S. Bradner.  Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
       Levels.  Request for Comments (Best Current Practice) 2119,
       Internet Engineering Task Force, March 1997.

   [2] R. Coltun, D. Ferguson, and J. Moy.  OSPF for IPv6.  Request for
       comments (proposed standard), Internet Engineering Task Force,
       December 1999.

   [3] S. Deering and R. Hinden.  Internet Protocol, Version 6 (ipv6)
       Specification.  Request for Comments (Draft Standard) 2460,
       Internet Engineering Task Force, December 1998.

   [4] et al. Ernst, T.  Mobile networks support in mobile ipv6.
       Internet Draft, Internet Engineering Task Force, June 2001.

   [5] D. Johnson and C. Perkins.  Mobility support in IPv6 (work in
       progress).  Internet Draft, Internet Engineering Task Force,
       November 1998.

   [6] S. Kent and R. Atkinson.  IP Authentication Header.  Request for
       Comments (Proposed Standard) 2402, Internet Engineering Task
       Force, November 1998.




Kniveton, et al.              Expires May 1, 2003              [Page 15]

Internet Draft        Network Mobility Protocol         November 1, 2002


   [7] S. Kent and R. Atkinson.  IP Encapsulating Security Payload
       (ESP).  Request for Comments (Proposed Standard) 2406, Internet
       Engineering Task Force, November 1998.

   [8] J. Moy.  OSPF Version 2.  Request for Comments (Standard) 2328,
       Internet Engineering Task Force, April 1998.

   [9] C. Perkins.  IP Mobility Support.  Request for Comments (Proposed
       Standard) 2002, Internet Engineering Task Force, October 1996.


Authors' Addresses


     T. J. Kniveton                     Vijay Devarapalli
     Communication Systems Lab          Communication Systems Lab
     Nokia Research Center              Nokia Research Center
     313 Fairchild Drive                313 Fairchild Drive
     Mountain View, California 94043    Mountain View, California 94043
     USA                                USA
     Phone:  +1 650 625-2025            Phone:  +1 650 625-2320
     EMail:  timothy.kniveton@nokia.com EMail:  vijayd@iprg.nokia.com
     Fax:  +1 650 625-2502              Fax:  +1 650 625-2502

     Jari T. Malinen                    Charles Perkins
     Communication Systems Lab          Communication Systems Lab
     Nokia Research Center              Nokia Research Center
     313 Fairchild Drive                313 Fairchild Drive
     Mountain View, California 94043    Mountain View, California 94043
     USA                                USA
     Phone:  +1 650 625-2355            Phone:  +1 650 625-2986
     EMail:  jmalinen@iprg.nokia.com    EMail:  charliep@iprg.nokia.com
     Fax:  +1 650 625-2502              Fax:  +1 650 625-2502




Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001-2002).  All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,



Kniveton, et al.              Expires May 1, 2003              [Page 16]

Internet Draft        Network Mobility Protocol         November 1, 2002


except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards
in which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
"AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT
NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL
NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


Acknowledgement

Funding for the RFC editor function is currently provided by the
Internet Society.
































Kniveton, et al.              Expires May 1, 2003              [Page 17]
