

                     Definitions of Managed Objects
                                for HPR

                           November 19, 1996


                         Bob Clouston (editor)
                             Cisco Systems
                           clouston@cisco.com



                           Bob Moore (editor)
                            IBM Corporation
                      remoore@ralvm6.vnet.ibm.com



                   <draft-ietf-snanau-hprmib-00.txt>




1.  Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months.
Internet-Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
documents at any time.  It is not appropriate to use Internet-Drafts as
reference material or to cite them other than as a working draft or work
in progress.

To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
1id-abstracts.txt listing contained in the Internet-Drafts Shadow
Directories on ds.internic.net, nic.nordu.net, ftp.isi.edu, or
munnari.oz.au.

2.  Introduction

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for monitoring and controlling network



Expires May 19, 1997                                            [Page 1]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


devices with HPR (High Performance Routing) capabilities.  This memo
identifies managed objects for the HPR protocol.


This memo does not specify a standard for the Internet community.

3.  The SNMP Network Management Framework

The SNMP Network Management Framework consists of several components.
For the purpose of this specification, the applicable components of the
Framework are the SMI and related documents [1, 2, 3], which define the
mechanisms used for describing and naming objects for the purpose of
management.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.


4.  Overview

This document identifies the proposed set of objects for monitoring the
configuration and active characteristics of devices with HPR
capabilities.  HPR is an enhancement to the Advanced Peer-to-Peer
Network (APPN) architecture that provides fast data routing and improved
session reliability.  APPN is one of the protocols that can use the HPR
transport mechanism.  See the SNANAU APPN MIB [4] for management of APPN
and APPN use of the HPR transport.

Automatic Network Routing (ANR) is a fast low-level routing technique.
Each node assigns a unique (within that node) ANR label for each out-
bound link as it is activated.  The label size is defined by the ANR
node, and nodes only need to know how to interpret their own labels.
The ANR string is a group of ANR labels encoded in a header in front of
the message being sent.  At each hop the node strips off its own ANR
label and forwards the message onto the link with that label.  The last
label in the string is the Network Connection Endpoint (NCE), which
identifies the component within the destination node that is to receive
the message.

Rapid Transport Protocol (RTP) is an end-to-end full duplex transport
connection (pipe).  It provides for high-speed transport of data using
ANR.  RTP is connection-oriented, and delivers data in correct order
reliably.  Error recovery is done efficiently with selective
retransmission of data.  An RTP path can be switched without disrupting
the sessions using it.  An RTP path switch may be done automatically if
a link in the path fails and another RTP path is available, or on demand



Expires May 19, 1997                                            [Page 2]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


to restore the optimal path.

RTP performs flow/congestion control with the Adaptive Rate-Based (ARB)
algorithm.  ARB is done only at the endpoints of the RTP pipe, so
intermediate hops are not involved.  ARB regulates the flow of data over
an RTP connection by adaptively changing the sender's rate based on
feedback on the receiver's rate.  It is designed to prevent congestion
rather than react to it.

In this document, we describe HPR managed objects.


The HPR terms and overall architecture are available from the
networking.raleigh.ibm.com ftp site [5].

Highlights of the management functions supported by the HPR MIB module
include the following:


o    Identifying network connection endpoints (NCEs).

o    Identifying how incoming packets are routed based on ANR labels.

o    Monitoring the RTP connections between nodes supporting the HPR
     Transport Tower.

o    Ability to trigger an RTP path switch

o    Historical information about RTP path switch attempts


This MIB module does not support:


o    Configuration of HPR nodes.

o    Protocol-specific uses of HPR (such as APPN)

o    Traps.  The APPN MIB contains a trap for Alert conditions that may
     affect HPR resources.


4.1.  HPR MIB Structure

The HPR MIB module contains the following groups of objects:




Expires May 19, 1997                                            [Page 3]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


o    hprGlobal - general HPR objects.

o    hprAnrRouting - objects related to the ANR routing table.

o    hprTransportUser - objects related to users of the HPR transport.

o    hprRtp - objects related to the HPR Transport Tower.


These groups are described below in more detail.


4.1.1.  hprGlobal group

The hprGlobal group consists of general objects such as the APPN CP name
of the HPR node and the level of support for operator-requested path
switches.


4.1.2.  hprAnrRouting group

The hprAnrRouting group consists objects to monitor and control the
counting of ANR packets received and the following table:

1) hprAnrRoutingTable

This table correlates incoming ANR labels to the outbound transmission
group (TG) or local NCE to which incoming packet will be forwarded.  An
entry defines the label type as identifying a local NCE or a TG,
identifies the NCE or TG, and counts the number of packets received with
the entry's ANR label.


4.1.3.  hprTransportUser group

The hprTransportUser group consists of the following table:

1) hprNceTable

This table identifies network connection endpoints and their function
types.  The function type can be any combination of a control point
(CP), logical unit (LU), boundary function, and route setup.







Expires May 19, 1997                                            [Page 4]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


4.1.4.  hprRtp group

The hprRtp group consists of the following objects and tables:

1) hprRtpGlobe

These objects contain information about the number of RTP connection
setups, and control of RTP counters.

2) hprRtpTable

This table contains one entry for each RTP connection.  The information
includes local and remote NCE IDs and TCIDs, timers, send rates, and
statistics.  A path switch can be triggered by the
hprRptPathSwitchTrigger object if the agent node supports it; however, a
new path cannot be specified.

3) hprRtpStatusTable

This table contains statistics and historical information for RTP path
switches attempts, including old and new ANR strings and Route Selection
Control Vectors (RSCVs), why the path switch was initiated, and the
result (successful or reason for failure).


























Expires May 19, 1997                                            [Page 5]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


5.  Definitions

HPR-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

  IMPORTS
        DisplayString, DateAndTime, TimeStamp, TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
                FROM SNMPv2-TC

        Counter32, Gauge32, Unsigned32, TimeTicks,
        OBJECT-TYPE, MODULE-IDENTITY
                FROM SNMPv2-SMI

        MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP
                FROM SNMPv2-CONF

        snanauMIB
                FROM SNA-NAU-MIB

        SnaControlPointName
                FROM APPN-MIB;
hprMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
        LAST-UPDATED  "961119000000Z"
        ORGANIZATION  "AIW APPN / HPR MIB SIG"
        CONTACT-INFO

                "

                        Bob Clouston
                        Cisco Systems
                        7025 Kit Creek Road
                        P.O. Box 14987
                        Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA
                        Tel:    1 919 472 2333
                        E-mail: clouston@cisco.com

                        Bob Moore
                        IBM Corporation
                        800 Park Offices Drive
                        RHJA/664
                        P.O. Box 12195
                        Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA
                        Tel:    1 919 254 4436
                        E-mail: remoore@ralvm6.vnet.ibm.com
                "
      DESCRIPTION
                "This is the MIB module for objects used to



Expires May 19, 1997                                            [Page 6]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


                 manage network devices with HPR capabilities."
::= { snanauMIB 6 }
-- snanauMIB ::= { mib-2 34 }

-- *********************************************************************
-- Textual Conventions
-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------

-- SnaControlPointName is imported from the APPN MIB

HprRtpCounter ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "An object providing statistics for an RTP connection.  A
          Management Station can detect discontinuities in this counter
          by monitoring the hprRtpCounterDisconTime object."

      SYNTAX Counter32

-- *********************************************************************
  hprObjects         OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hprMIB 1 }
-- *********************************************************************

-- *********************************************************************
hprGlobal            OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hprObjects 1 }
-- **********************************************************************
-- The hprGlobal group applies to both intermediate and end nodes.
-- **********************************************************************

hprNodeCpName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SnaControlPointName
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned network name for the APPN node where
          this HPR implementation resides.  This object corresponds to
          the appnNodeCpName object in the APPN MIB."

      ::= { hprGlobal 1 }

hprUpTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX TimeTicks
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Time (in hundredths of a second) since this HPR component



Expires May 19, 1997                                            [Page 7]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


          was last re-initialized."

      ::= { hprGlobal 2 }

hprOperatorPathSwitchSupport  OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                      notSupported(1),
                      switchTriggerSupported(2),
                      switchToPathSupported(3)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This object indicates an implementation's level of support for
          an operator-requested path switch.

            notSupported(1)           - the agent does not support
                                        operator-requested path switches
            switchTriggerSupported(2) - the agent supports a 'switch
                                        path now' command from an
                                        operator, but not a command to
                                        switch to a specified path
            switchToPathSupported(3)  - the agent supports both a
                                        'switch path now' command and a
                                        command to switch to a specified
                                        path."

      ::= { hprGlobal 3 }

-- **********************************************************************
hprAnrRouting        OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hprObjects 2 }
-- **********************************************************************

hprAnrsAssigned OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of ANRs assigned by this node since it was
          last re-initialized.  A Management Station can detect
          discontinuities in this counter by monitoring the
          appnNodeCounterDisconTime object in the APPN MIB."

      ::= { hprAnrRouting 1 }

hprAnrCounterState  OBJECT-TYPE



Expires May 19, 1997                                            [Page 8]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                      notActive(1),
                      active(2)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-write
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This object is used for a network management station to turn
          on/off the counting of ANR packets in the hprAnrRoutingTable.
          The initial value of this object is an implementation choice.

                 notActive(1) - this counter is not being incremented;
                                its value is always zero
                 active(2)    - this counter is being incremented"

      ::= { hprAnrRouting 2 }

hprAnrCounterStateTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DateAndTime
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The time when the hprAnrCounterState object last changed its
          value."

      ::= { hprAnrRouting 3 }

hprAnrRoutingTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF HprAnrRoutingEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The ANR Routing table provides a means of correlating an
          incoming ANR label (i.e., one assigned by this node) with the
          TG over which a packet containing the label will be forwarded.
          When the ANR label identifies a local NCE, the TG information
          objects have no meaning.  The table also contains an object to
          count the number of packets received with a given ANR label."

      ::= { hprAnrRouting 4 }

hprAnrRoutingEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HprAnrRoutingEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION



Expires May 19, 1997                                            [Page 9]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


          "The ANR label is used to index this table."

      INDEX  { hprAnrLabel }

      ::= { hprAnrRoutingTable 1 }

HprAnrRoutingEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
     hprAnrLabel             OCTET STRING,
     hprAnrType              INTEGER,
     hprAnrOutTgDest         DisplayString,
     hprAnrOutTgNum          INTEGER,
     hprAnrPacketsReceived   Counter32,
     hprAnrCounterDisconTime TimeStamp
     }

hprAnrLabel OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..8))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The first ANR label in an incoming packet."

      ::= { hprAnrRoutingEntry 1 }

hprAnrType OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                      nce(1),
                      tg(2)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "An object indicating whether an ANR label assigned by this
          node identifies a local NCE or a TG on which outgoing packets
          are forwarded.

              nce(1)  - the ANR label identifies a local NCE.  In this
                        case the hprAnrOutTgDest and hprAnrOutTgNum
                        objects have no meaning.
              tg(2)   - the ANR label identifies a TG."

      ::= { hprAnrRoutingEntry 2 }

hprAnrOutTgDest OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (0 | 3..17))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 10]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Destination node for the TG over which packets with this ANR
          label are forwarded.  This is the fully qualified name of an
          APPN network node or end node, formatted according to the
          SnaControlPointName textual convention.  If the ANR label
          identifies a local NCE, then this object returns a zero-length
          string.

          This object corresponds to the appnLocalTgDest object in the
          APPN MIB."

      ::= { hprAnrRoutingEntry 3 }

hprAnrOutTgNum OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of the TG over which packets with this ANR label are
          forwarded.  If the ANR label identifies a local NCE, then this
          object returns the value 0.

          This object corresponds to the appnLocalTgNum object in the
          APPN MIB."

      ::= { hprAnrRoutingEntry 4 }

hprAnrPacketsReceived OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of packets received with this ANR label as
          their first label.

          A Management Station can detect discontinuities in this counter
          by monitoring the hprAnrCounterDisconTime object."

      ::= { hprAnrRoutingEntry 5 }

hprAnrCounterDisconTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX TimeStamp
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 11]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


          "The value of the sysUpTime object when the
          hprAnrPacketsReceived counter for this ANR label last
          experienced a discontinuity.  This will be the later of two
          times:  the time at which the ANR label was associated with
          either an outgoing TG or a local NCE, or the time at which the
          ANR counters were last turned on."

      ::= { hprAnrRoutingEntry 6 }

-- **********************************************************************
hprTransportUser     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hprObjects 3 }
-- **********************************************************************
-- Transport Service User (TU) Table: (RTP Connection Users)
--
-- There will be several users of the HPR transport and each HPR node
-- shall maintain a table of these users.
-- **********************************************************************

hprNceTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF HprNceEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The Network Connection Endpoint (NCE) table."

      ::= { hprTransportUser 1 }

hprNceEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HprNceEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The NCE ID is used to index this table."

      INDEX  { hprNceId }

      ::= { hprNceTable 1 }

HprNceEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
     hprNceId            OCTET STRING,
     hprNceType          INTEGER,
     hprNceDefault       INTEGER,
     hprNceInstanceId    OCTET STRING
     }

hprNceId OBJECT-TYPE



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 12]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..8))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The Network Connection Endpoint (NCE) id.  NCEs identify
          Control Points (Cp), Logical Units (Lu), HPR Boundary
          Functions (Bf) and Route Setup (Rs) Functions."

      ::= { hprNceEntry 1 }

hprNceType OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                      cp(1),
                      lu(2),
                      luCp(3),
                      bf(4),
                      bfCp(5),
                      bfLu(6),
                      bfLuCp(7),
                      rs(8),
                      rsCp(9),
                      rsLu(10),
                      rsLuCp(11),
                      rsBf(12),
                      rsBfCp(13),
                      rsBfLu(14),
                      rsBfLuCp(15)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The Network Connection Endpoint (NCE) may provide one or more
          function types.  These function types are encoded such that a
          bit is set to '1' if the corresponding function type is
          supported by this NCE:

              bit 0:     Control Point Functions (Cp)
              bit 1:     Logical Unit Functions  (Lu)
              bit 2:     Boundary Functions      (Bf)
              bit 3:     Route Setup Functions   (Rs)
              bit 4-31:  reserved, always '0'
          "

      ::= { hprNceEntry 2 }

hprNceDefault OBJECT-TYPE



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 13]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                      cp(1),
                      lu(2),
                      luCp(3),
                      bf(4),
                      bfCp(5),
                      bfLu(6),
                      bfLuCp(7),
                      rs(8),
                      rsCp(9),
                      rsLu(10),
                      rsLuCp(11),
                      rsBf(12),
                      rsBfCp(13),
                      rsBfLu(14),
                      rsBfLuCp(15),
                      noDefault(32768)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether or not this NCE is the default for one or
          more function types.  While default NCEs are not explicitly
          defined in the architecture, some implementations provide them;
          for such implementations, it is useful to make this information
          available to a Management Station.

          The function types are encoded such that a bit is set to '1' if
          the corresponding function type uses this NCE as the default.
          Turning on only bit 15 indicates that the NCE is not a default
          for any function type; an implementation that does not support
          default NCEs returns this value for every NCE.

              bit 0:     Control Point Functions (Cp)
              bit 1:     Logical Unit Functions  (Lu)
              bit 2:     Boundary Functions      (Bf)
              bit 3:     Route Setup Functions   (Rs)
              bit 4-14:  reserved, always '0'
              bit 15:    not a default for any function type
              bit 16-31:  reserved, always '0'
          "

      ::= { hprNceEntry 3 }

hprNceInstanceId   OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 14]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The NCE instance identifier (NCEII) identifying the current
          instance of this NCE."

      ::= { hprNceEntry 4 }

-- **********************************************************************
hprRtp               OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hprObjects 4 }
-- **********************************************************************
-- **********************************************************************
--
-- The RTP group is implemented by all managed nodes supporting the
-- HPR Transport Tower.  The group contains several scalars (simple
-- objects) and a table.
-- **********************************************************************

-- **********************************************************************
hprRtpGlobe          OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hprRtp 1}
-- **********************************************************************
hprRtpGlobeConnSetups  OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of RTP connection setups in which this node
          has participated, as either sender or receiver, since it was
          last re-initialized.  Retries of a setup attempt do not cause
          the counter to be incremented.

          A Management Station can detect discontinuities in this counter
          by monitoring the appnNodeCounterDisconTime object in the APPN
          MIB."

      ::= { hprRtpGlobe 1 }

hprRtpGlobeCtrState OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                      notActive(1),
                      active(2)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-write
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This object allows a network management station to turn the



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 15]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


          counters in the hprRtpTable on and off.  The initial value of
          this object is an implementation choice.

              notActive(1) - these counters are not being incremented;
                             their values are always zero
              active(2)    - these counters are being incremented"

      ::= { hprRtpGlobe 2 }

hprRtpGlobeCtrStateTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DateAndTime
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The time when the value of the hprRtpGlobeCtrState object last
          changed.  This time can be used to identify when this change
          occurred in relation to other events in the agent, such as the
          last time the APPN node was re-initialized, and thus it can be
          of use in determining how to interpret the values of the
          counter objects."

      ::= { hprRtpGlobe 3 }

-- **********************************************************************
-- The RTP Connection Table
-- There may be many RTP connections on a node supporting the
-- HPR Transport Tower.   Each tower node shall maintain a table
-- of these RTP connections.
-- **********************************************************************

hprRtpTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF HprRtpEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The RTP Connection table"

      ::= { hprRtp 2 }

hprRtpEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HprRtpEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The local NCE ID and local TCID are used to index this table."




Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 16]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


      INDEX
             { hprRtpLocNceId,
               hprRtpLocTcid }

      ::= { hprRtpTable 1 }

HprRtpEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
     hprRtpLocNceId          OCTET STRING,       -- local nce id
     hprRtpLocTcid           OCTET STRING,       -- local tcid
     hprRtpRemCpName         SnaControlPointName,-- remote cp name
     hprRtpRemNceId          OCTET STRING,       -- remote nce id
     hprRtpRemTcid           OCTET STRING,       -- remote tcid
     hprRtpPathSwitchTrigger INTEGER,            -- trigger (read-write)
     hprRtpRscv              OCTET STRING,       -- rscv
     hprRtpTopic             DisplayString,      -- topic (cos)
     hprRtpState             INTEGER,            -- state
     hprRtpUpTime            TimeTicks,          -- up time

     hprRtpLivenessTimer     Unsigned32,         -- liveness timer
     hprRtpShortReqTimer     Unsigned32,         -- short request timer
     hprRtpPathSwTimer       Unsigned32,         -- path switch timer

     hprRtpLivenessTimeouts  HprRtpCounter,      -- liveness timeouts
     hprRtpShortReqTimeouts  HprRtpCounter,      -- short req timeouts

     hprRtpMaxSendRate       Gauge32,            -- maximum send rate
     hprRtpMinSendRate       Gauge32,            -- minimum send rate
     hprRtpCurSendRate       Gauge32,            -- current send rate

     hprRtpSmRdTripDelay     Gauge32,            -- smooth rnd trip delay

     hprRtpRecvPackets       HprRtpCounter,      -- total packets recv
     hprRtpSendPackets       HprRtpCounter,      -- total packets sent
     hprRtpRecvBytes         HprRtpCounter,      -- total bytes recv
     hprRtpSendBytes         HprRtpCounter,      -- total bytes sent

     hprRtpRetrPackets       HprRtpCounter,      -- total pkts re-xmitted
     hprRtpPacketsDiscarded  HprRtpCounter,      -- total pkts discarded
     hprRtpDetectGaps        HprRtpCounter,      -- total gaps detected
     hprRtpRateReqSends      HprRtpCounter,      -- total rate req send

     hprRtpOkErrPathSws      HprRtpCounter,      -- ok  err path sws
     hprRtpBadErrPathSws     HprRtpCounter,      -- bad err path sws
     hprRtpOkOpPathSws       HprRtpCounter,      -- ok  op  path sws
     hprRtpBadOpPathSws      HprRtpCounter,      -- bad op  path sws




Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 17]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


     hprRtpCounterDisconTime TimeStamp           -- discontinuity ind
        }

hprRtpLocNceId OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..8))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The local Network Connection Endpoint (NCE) of this RTP
          connection.  NCEs identify CPs, LUs, Boundary Functions (BFs),
          and Route Setup (RS) components."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 1 }

hprRtpLocTcid OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The local TCID of this RTP connection."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 2 }

hprRtpRemCpName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SnaControlPointName
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned network name for the remote node of
          this RTP connection."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 3 }

hprRtpRemNceId OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The remote Network Connection Endpoint (NCE) of this RTP
          connection.  NCEs identify CPs, LUs, Boundary Functions (BFs),
          and Route Setup (RS) components."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 4 }

hprRtpRemTcid OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 18]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The remote TCID of this RTP connection."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 5 }

hprRtpPathSwitchTrigger OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                      ready(1),
                      switchPathNow(2)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-write
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Object by which a Management Station can trigger an operator-
          requested path switch, by setting the value to
          switchPathNow(2).  Setting this object to switchPathNow(2)
          triggers a path switch even if its previous value was already
          switchPathNow(2).

          The value ready(1) is returned on GET operations until a SET
          has been processed; after that the value received on the most
          recent SET is returned.

          Setting this object to switchPathNow(2) has no effect if the
          agent does not support operator-requested path switches (i.e.,
          if the value of the hprOperatorPathSwitchSupport object is
          notSupported(1)).

          This MIB module provides no support for an operator-requested
          switch to a specified path."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 6 }

hprRtpRscv OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (0..255))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The forward Route Selection Control Vector for this RTP
          connection.  The format of this vector is described in SNA
          Formats.

          The value returned in this object during a path switch is
          implementation-dependent:  it may be the old path, the new



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 19]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


          path, a zero-length string, or some other valid RSCV string."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 7 }

hprRtpTopic OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE(8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The topic for this RTP connection.  This is used to indicate
          the Class of Service."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 8 }

hprRtpState OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                      rtpListening(1),
                      rtpCalling(2),
                      rtpConnected(3),
                      rtpPathSwitching(4),
                      rtpDisconnecting(5),
                      other(99)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The state of the RTP connection, from the perspective of the
          local RTP protocol machine:

              rtpListening      - connection open; waiting for other end
                                  to call in
              rtpCalling        - connection opened, attempting to call
                                  out, have not yet received any data
                                  from other end
              rtpConnected      - connection is active; responded to a
                                  call-in or received other end's TCID
                                  from a call-out attempt
              rtpPathSwitching  - the path switch timer is running;
                                  attempting to find a new path for this
                                  connection.
              rtpDisconnecting  - no sessions are using this connection;
                                  in process of bringing it down
              other             - the connection is not in any of the
                                  states listed above."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 9 }



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 20]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


hprRtpUpTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX TimeTicks
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The length of time the RTP connection has been up, measured in
          1/100ths of a second."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 10 }

hprRtpLivenessTimer OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Unsigned32
      UNITS "1/100ths of a second"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The value of the liveness (ALIVE) timer of this RTP
          connection, in units of 1/100th of a second.  When this timer
          expires and no packet has arrived from the partner since it was
          last set, packets with Status Request indicators will be sent
          to see if the RTP connection is still alive."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 11 }

hprRtpShortReqTimer  OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Unsigned32
      UNITS "1/100ths of a second"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The value of the RTP SHORT_REQ timer, in units of 1/100 of a
          second.  This timer represents the maximum time that a sender
          waits for a reply from a receiver."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 12 }

hprRtpPathSwTimer OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Unsigned32
      UNITS "1/100ths of a second"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The length of time that RTP should attempt a path switch for a
          connection, in units of 1/100th of a second."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 13 }



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 21]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


hprRtpLivenessTimeouts OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HprRtpCounter
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of liveness timeouts for this RTP
          connection."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 14 }

hprRtpShortReqTimeouts OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HprRtpCounter
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of short request timeouts for this RTP
          connection."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 15 }

hprRtpMaxSendRate OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The high-water mark for this RTP connection's send rate, in
          units of bytes per second.  This is the high-water mark for the
          entire life of the connection, not just the high-water mark for
          the connection's current path."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 16 }

hprRtpMinSendRate OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The low-water mark for this RTP connection's send rate, in
          units of bytes per second.  This is the low-water mark for the
          entire life of the connection, not just the low-water mark for
          the connection's current path."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 17 }

hprRtpCurSendRate OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 22]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The current send rate for this RTP connection, in units of
          bytes per second."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 18 }

hprRtpSmRdTripDelay OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      UNITS "1/1000ths of a second"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The smoothed round trip delay for this RTP connection, in
          units of 1/1000th of a second (ms)."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 19 }

hprRtpSendPackets OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HprRtpCounter
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of packets successfully sent on this RTP
          connection."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 20 }

hprRtpRecvPackets OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HprRtpCounter
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of packets received on this RTP connection.
          The counter is incremented only once if duplicate copies of a
          packet are received."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 21 }

hprRtpSendBytes OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HprRtpCounter
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of bytes sent on this RTP connection.  Both



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 23]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


          RTP Transport Header (THDR) bytes and data bytes are included
          in this count."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 22 }

hprRtpRecvBytes OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HprRtpCounter
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of bytes received on this RTP connection.
          Both RTP Transport Header (THDR) bytes and data bytes are
          included in this count."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 23 }

hprRtpRetrPackets OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HprRtpCounter
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of packets retransmitted on this RTP
          connection."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 24 }

hprRtpPacketsDiscarded OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HprRtpCounter
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of packets received on this RTP connection
          and then discarded.  A packet may be discarded because it is
          determined to be a duplicate, or for other reasons."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 25 }

hprRtpDetectGaps OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HprRtpCounter
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of gaps detected on this RTP connection."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 26 }




Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 24]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


hprRtpRateReqSends OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HprRtpCounter
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of Rate Requests sent on this RTP
          connection."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 27 }

hprRtpOkErrPathSws OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HprRtpCounter
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of successful path switch attempts for this
          RTP connection due to errors."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 28 }

hprRtpBadErrPathSws OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HprRtpCounter
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of unsuccessful path switches for this RTP
          connection due to errors."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 29 }

hprRtpOkOpPathSws OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HprRtpCounter
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of successful path switches for this RTP
          connection due to operator requests."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 30 }

hprRtpBadOpPathSws OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HprRtpCounter
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of unsuccessful path switches for this RTP



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 25]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


          connection due to operator requests.  This counter is not
          incremented by an implementation that does not support
          operator-requested path switches, even if a Management Station
          requests such a path switch by setting the
          hprRtpPathSwitchTrigger object."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 31 }

hprRtpCounterDisconTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX TimeStamp
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The value of the sysUpTime object when the counters for this
          RTP connection last experienced a discontinuity.  This will be
          the later of two times:  the time at which the connection was
          established or the time at which the HPR counters were last
          turned on."

      ::= { hprRtpEntry 32 }

-- **********************************************************************
-- The RTP Connection Status Table
--  This table contains statistics and historical information related to
--  both successful and unsuccessful RTP path switches.  This information
--  can be important for both trend analysis and problem determination.
--
--  Note the terminology here:  when RTP is triggered to find a new path
--  for a connection, this initiates a 'path switch,' which will end up
--  being either successful or unsuccessful.  During this path switch,
--  RTP will make one or more 'path switch attempts,' which are attempts
--  to find a new path for the connection and switch the connection to
--  it.  This 'new' path may be the same path that the connection was
--  using before the path switch.
--
--  It is an implementation option how many entries to keep in this
--  table, and how long to retain any individual entry.
-- **********************************************************************
hprRtpStatusTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF HprRtpStatusEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "RTP Connection Status Table:  This table contains historical
          information on RTP connections.  An entry is created in this
          table when a path switch is completed, either successfully or



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 26]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


          unsuccessfully."

      ::= { hprRtp 3 }

hprRtpStatusEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HprRtpStatusEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This table is indexed by local NCE ID, local TCID, and
          an integer hprRtpStatusIndex."

      INDEX
             { hprRtpStatusLocNceId,
               hprRtpStatusLocTcid,
               hprRtpStatusIndex }

      ::= { hprRtpStatusTable 1 }

  HprRtpStatusEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
     hprRtpStatusLocNceId          OCTET STRING, -- local nce id
     hprRtpStatusLocTcid           OCTET STRING, -- local tcid
     hprRtpStatusIndex             Unsigned32,   -- index
     hprRtpStatusStartTime         DateAndTime,  -- time stamp
     hprRtpStatusEndTime           DateAndTime,  -- time stamp
     hprRtpStatusRemNceId          OCTET STRING, -- remote nce id
     hprRtpStatusRemTcid           OCTET STRING, -- remote tcid
     hprRtpStatusRemCpName         SnaControlPointName,-- remote cp name
     hprRtpStatusNewRscv           OCTET STRING, -- new rscv
     hprRtpStatusOldRscv           OCTET STRING, -- old rscv
     hprRtpStatusCause             INTEGER,      -- cause
     hprRtpStatusLastAttemptResult INTEGER       -- result of last
                                          }

hprRtpStatusLocNceId OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..8))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The local Network Connection Endpoint (NCE) of this RTP
          connection.  NCEs identify CPs, LUs, Boundary Functions (BFs),
          and Route Setup (RS) components."

      ::= { hprRtpStatusEntry 1 }

hprRtpStatusLocTcid OBJECT-TYPE



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 27]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The local TCID of this RTP connection."

      ::= { hprRtpStatusEntry 2 }

hprRtpStatusIndex OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Unsigned32
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Table index.  This value begins at zero and is incremented
          when a new entry is added to the table."

      ::= { hprRtpStatusEntry 3 }

hprRtpStatusStartTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DateAndTime
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The time when the path switch began."

      ::= { hprRtpStatusEntry 4 }

hprRtpStatusEndTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DateAndTime
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The time when the path switch was ended, either successfully
          or unsuccessfully."

      ::= { hprRtpStatusEntry 5 }

hprRtpStatusRemCpName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SnaControlPointName
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned network name for the remote node of
          this RTP connection."

      ::= { hprRtpStatusEntry 6 }



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 28]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


hprRtpStatusRemNceId OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The remote Network Connection Endpoint (NCE) of this RTP
          connection.  NCEs identify CPs, LUs, Boundary Functions (BFs),
          and Route Setup (RS) components."

      ::= { hprRtpStatusEntry 7 }

hprRtpStatusRemTcid OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The remote TCID of this RTP connection."

      ::= { hprRtpStatusEntry 8 }

hprRtpStatusNewRscv OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (0..255))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The new Route Selection Control Vector for this RTP
          connection."

      ::= { hprRtpStatusEntry 9 }

hprRtpStatusOldRscv OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (0..255))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The old Route Selection Control Vector for this RTP
          connection."

      ::= { hprRtpStatusEntry 10 }

hprRtpStatusCause OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                      other(1),
                      rtpConnFail(2),
                      locLinkFail(3),
                      remLinkFail(4),



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 29]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


                      operRequest(5)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The reason for the path switch:

               other(1)       - Reason other than those listed below,
               rtpConnFail(2) - RTP connection failure detected,
               locLinkFail(3) - Local link failure,
               remLinkFail(4) - Remote link failure (learned from TDUs),
               operRequest(5) - Operator requested path switch. "

      ::= { hprRtpStatusEntry 11 }

hprRtpStatusLastAttemptResult  OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER { successful(1),
                       initiatorMoving(2),
                       directorySearchFailed(3),
                       rscvCalculationFailed(4),
                       negativeRouteSetupReply(5),
                       backoutRouteSetupReply(6),
                       timeoutDuringFirstAttempt(7),
                       otherUnsuccessful(8)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The result of the last completed path switch attempt.  If the
          path switch is aborted in the middle of a path switch attempt
          because the path switch timer expires, the result of the
          previous path swtich attempt is reported.

          The values are defined as follows:

             successful(1)                - The final path switch attempt
                                            was successful.
             initiatorMoving(2)           - The final path switch attempt
                                            failed because the initiator
                                            is mobile, and there was no
                                            active link out of this node.
             directorySearchFailed(3)     - The final path switch attempt
                                            failed because a directory
                                            search for the destination
                                            node's CP name failed.
             rscvCalculationFailed(4)     - The final path switch attempt



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 30]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


                                            failed because an RSCV to the
                                            node containing the remote
                                            RTP endpoint could not be
                                            calculated.
             negativeRouteSetupReply(5)   - The final path switch attempt
                                            failed because route setup
                                            failed for the new path.
             backoutRouteSetupReply(6)    - The final path switch attempt
                                            failed because the remote RTP
                                            endpoint refused to continue
                                            the RTP connection.
             timeoutDuringFirstAttempt(7) - The path switch timer expired
                                            during the first path switch
                                            attempt.
             otherUnsuccessful(8)         - The final path switch attempt
                                            failed for a reason other
                                            than those listed above."



      ::= { hprRtpStatusEntry 12 }


-- ***************************************************************
-- Conformance information
-- ***************************************************************

hprConformance       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hprMIB 2 }

hprCompliances       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hprConformance 1 }
hprGroups            OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hprConformance 2 }

-- Compliance statements

hprCompliance  MODULE-COMPLIANCE
      STATUS  current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The compliance statement for the SNMPv2 entities that
          implement the HPR MIB."

      MODULE  -- this module

--    Unconditionally mandatory groups
          MANDATORY-GROUPS  {
                             hprGlobalConfGroup,
                             hprAnrRoutingConfGroup,



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 31]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


                             hprTransportUserConfGroup
                            }

--    Conditionally mandatory groups
          GROUP   hprRtpConfGroup
          DESCRIPTION
              "The hprRtpConfGroup is mandatory for HPR implementations
              supporting the HPR transport tower."

      ::= { hprCompliances 1 }

-- Units of conformance
hprGlobalConfGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
                 hprNodeCpName,
                 hprUpTime,
                 hprOperatorPathSwitchSupport
                }
      STATUS  current
      DESCRIPTION
          "A collection of objects providing the instrumentation of HPR
          general information and capabilities."

      ::= { hprGroups 1 }

hprAnrRoutingConfGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
                 hprAnrsAssigned,
                 hprAnrCounterState,
                 hprAnrCounterStateTime,
                 hprAnrType,
                 hprAnrOutTgDest,
                 hprAnrOutTgNum,
                 hprAnrPacketsReceived,
                 hprAnrCounterDisconTime
                }
      STATUS  current
      DESCRIPTION
          "A collection of objects providing instrumentation for the
          node's ANR routing."

      ::= { hprGroups 2 }

hprTransportUserConfGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
                 hprNceType,



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 32]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


                 hprNceDefault,
                 hprNceInstanceId
                }
      STATUS  current
      DESCRIPTION
          "A collection of objects providing information on the users of
          the HPR transport known to the node."

      ::= { hprGroups 3 }

hprRtpConfGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
                 hprRtpGlobeConnSetups,
                 hprRtpGlobeCtrState,
                 hprRtpGlobeCtrStateTime,
                 hprRtpRemCpName,
                 hprRtpRemNceId,
                 hprRtpRemTcid,
                 hprRtpPathSwitchTrigger,
                 hprRtpRscv,
                 hprRtpTopic,
                 hprRtpState,
                 hprRtpUpTime,
                 hprRtpLivenessTimer,
                 hprRtpShortReqTimer,
                 hprRtpPathSwTimer,
                 hprRtpLivenessTimeouts,
                 hprRtpShortReqTimeouts,

                 hprRtpMaxSendRate,
                 hprRtpMinSendRate,
                 hprRtpCurSendRate,

                 hprRtpSmRdTripDelay,

                 hprRtpRecvPackets,
                 hprRtpSendPackets,
                 hprRtpRecvBytes,
                 hprRtpSendBytes,

                 hprRtpRetrPackets,
                 hprRtpPacketsDiscarded,
                 hprRtpDetectGaps,
                 hprRtpRateReqSends,

                 hprRtpOkErrPathSws,



Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 33]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


                 hprRtpBadErrPathSws,
                 hprRtpOkOpPathSws,
                 hprRtpBadOpPathSws,
                 hprRtpCounterDisconTime,

                 hprRtpStatusStartTime,
                 hprRtpStatusEndTime,
                 hprRtpStatusRemNceId,
                 hprRtpStatusRemTcid,
                 hprRtpStatusRemCpName,
                 hprRtpStatusNewRscv,
                 hprRtpStatusOldRscv,
                 hprRtpStatusCause,
                 hprRtpStatusLastAttemptResult

                }
      STATUS  current
      DESCRIPTION
          "A collection of objects providing the instrumentation for RTP
          connection end points."

      ::= { hprGroups 4 }

-- end of conformance statement

END























Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 34]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


6.  Acknowledgments

This MIB module is the product of the IETF SNA NAU MIB WG and the AIW
APPN/HPR MIBs SIG.  Thanks to Ray Bird, IBM Corporation; Jim Cobban,
Nortel; and Laura Petrie, IBM Corporation, for their contributions and
review.


7.  References


[1]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S.
     Waldbusser, "Structure of Management Information for version 2 of
     the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902, January
     1996.

[2]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S.
     Waldbusser, "Textual Conventions for Version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1903, January 1996.

[3]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S.
     Waldbusser, "Conformance Statements for Version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1904, January 1996.

[4]  Clouston, B., and B. Moore, "Definition of Managed Objects for
     APPN", Cisco Systems, IBM Corporation, November 1996.

[5]  ftp://networking.raleigh.ibm.com/pub/standards/aiw/appn/hpr/hpr6.psbin





















Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 35]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


8.  Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.


9.  Authors' Addresses

Bob Clouston
Cisco Systems
7025 Kit Creek Road
P.O. Box 14987
Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA

Tel:    1 919 472 2333
E-mail: clouston@cisco.com


Bob Moore
IBM Corporation
800 Park Offices Drive
CNMA/664
P.O. Box 12195
Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA

Tel:    1 919 254 4436
E-mail: remoore@ralvm6.vnet.ibm.com























Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 36]

Internet Draft               SNANAU HPR MIB                November 1996


10.  Table of Contents


   1.     Status of this Memo  ....................................  1
   2.     Introduction  ...........................................  1
   3.     The SNMP Network Management Framework  ..................  2
   4.     Overview  ...............................................  2
   4.1      HPR MIB structure .....................................  3
   5.     Definitions  ............................................  6
   6.     Acknowledgments  ........................................  35
   7.     References  .............................................  35
   8.     Security Considerations  ................................  36
   9.     Author's Addresses  .....................................  36




































Expires May 19, 1997                                           [Page 37]

