



IDMR Working Group                                   Keith McCloghrie
INTERNET-DRAFT                                         Dino Farinacci
Expires September 1997                                  Cisco Systems
                                                          Dave Thaler
                                               University of Michigan
                                                        25 March 1997



                   Protocol Independent Multicast MIB
                    <draft-ietf-idmr-pim-mib-03.txt>





Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet Draft.  Internet Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its Areas, and
its Working Groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet Drafts.

Internet Drafts are valid for a maximum of six months and may be
updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any time.  It is
inappropriate to use Internet Drafts as reference material or to cite
them other than as a "work in progress".


1.  Introduction

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in the Internet
community.  In particular, it describes managed objects used for
managing the Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM) protocol [5,6,7,8].
This MIB module is applicable to IP multicast routers which implement
PIM.



















Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


2.  Revision History

A record of changes which will be removed before publication.

25 March

(1)  deprecated pimInterfaceMode, which is obsoleted by
     ipMRouteInterfaceProtocol in the IP Multicast MIB.

(2)  deprecated pimNeighborMode (to retain support for PIM version 1).

(3)  moved pimCandidateBSRPreference to the PIM Interface Table and
     renamed it pimInterfaceCBSRPreference.

(4)  moved pimBSRAddress, pimBSRExpiryTime, and pimCandidateRPHoldTime
     to the new PIM Component Table, to manage routers connected to
     multiple PIM domains.

(5)  renamed pimMessageInterval to pimJoinPruneInterval and
     pimInterfaceQueryInterval to pimInterfaceHelloInterval.

(6)  added pimInterfaceJoinPruneInterval.

9 June:

(1)  added pimRPSetTable and pimCandidateRPTable.

(2)  deprecated pimRPTable (to retain support for PIM version 1).

(3)  removed pimGroupTable.

(4)  added pimBSRAddress, pimBSRExpiryTime, pimCandidateBSRPreference
     and pimCandidateRPHoldTime.

4 November:

(1)  changed the PIM Group table to hold information common to all RPs
     of a group.

(2)  added the PIM RP table with each entry specific to an RP of a
     group.

(3)  added pimNeighborMode







Expires September 1997                                          [Page 2]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


(4)  modified the pimGroupTable to be indexed by pimGroupAddress and
     pimGroupRP, in order to allow for multiple RPs per group.

15 July - initial version.


3.  The SNMP Network Management Framework

The SNMP Network Management Framework presently consists of three major
components.  They are:

o    RFC 1902 [1] which defines the SMI, the mechanisms used for
     describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.

o    STD 17, RFC 1213 [2] defines MIB-II, the core set of managed
     objects for the Internet suite of protocols.

o    RFC 1157 [3] and RFC 1905 [4] which define two versions of the
     protocol used for network access to managed objects.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.


3.1.  Object Definitions

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) defined in the
SMI.  In particular, each object type is named by an OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
an administratively assigned name.  The object type together with an
object instance serves to uniquely identify a specific instantiation of
the object.  For human convenience, we often use a textual string,
termed the descriptor, to refer to the object type.


4.  Overview

This MIB module contains one scalar and six tables.  The tables are:

(1)  the PIM Interface Table which contains one row for each of the
     router's PIM interfaces;

(2)  the PIM Neighbor Table which contains one row for each of the
     router's PIM neighbors; and





Expires September 1997                                          [Page 3]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


(3)  the PIM RP-Set Table which contains the PIM (version 2) information
     for sets of candidate Rendezvous Points (RPs) for IP multicast
     group addresses with particular address prefixes.

(4)  the PIM Candidate-RP Table which contains the IP multicast groups
     for which the local router is to advertise itself as a Candidate-
     RP.  If this table is empty, then the local router advertises
     itself as a Candidate-RP for all groups.

(5)  the (deprecated) PIM RP Table which contains the PIM (version 1)
     information for IP multicast groups which is common to all RPs of a
     group;

(6)  the PIM Component Table which contains one row for each of the PIM
     domains to which the router is connected.



































Expires September 1997                                          [Page 4]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


5.  Definitions

PIM-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, experimental,
    Integer32, IpAddress, TimeTicks  FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    RowStatus                        FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP  FROM SNMPv2-CONF;

pimMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9703261231Z"
    ORGANIZATION "IETF IDMR Working Group."
    CONTACT-INFO
            " Keith McCloghrie
              Cisco Systems, Inc.
              170 West Tasman Drive
              San Jose, CA  95134-1706
              US

              Phone: +1 408 526 5260
              EMail: kzm@cisco.com"
    DESCRIPTION
            "The MIB module for management of PIM routers."
    ::= { experimental 61 }

pimMIBObjects OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { pimMIB 1 }

pim           OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { pimMIBObjects 1 }


pimJoinPruneInterval OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The default interval at which periodic PIM-SM Join/Prune
            messages are to be sent."
    ::= { pim 1 }










Expires September 1997                                          [Page 5]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


-- The PIM Interface Table

pimInterfaceTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF PimInterfaceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing the router's PIM interfaces.
            IGMP and PIM are enabled on all interfaces listed in this
            table."
    ::= { pim 2 }

pimInterfaceEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     PimInterfaceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the pimInterfaceTable."
    INDEX      { pimInterfaceIfIndex }
    ::= { pimInterfaceTable 1 }

PimInterfaceEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    pimInterfaceIfIndex            Integer32,
    pimInterfaceAddress            IpAddress,
    pimInterfaceNetMask            IpAddress,
    pimInterfaceMode               INTEGER,
    pimInterfaceDR                 IpAddress,
    pimInterfaceHelloInterval      Integer32,
    pimInterfaceStatus             RowStatus,
    pimInterfaceJoinPruneInterval  Integer32,
    pimInterfaceCBSRPreference     Integer32
}

pimInterfaceIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The ifIndex value of this PIM interface."
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 1 }

pimInterfaceAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current





Expires September 1997                                          [Page 6]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the PIM interface."
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 2 }

pimInterfaceNetMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The network mask for the IP address of the PIM interface."
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 3 }

pimInterfaceMode OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER { dense(1), sparse(2) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The configured mode of this PIM interface."
    DEFVAL     { dense }
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 4 }

pimInterfaceDR OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The Designated Router on this PIM interface.  For point-
            to-point interfaces, this object has the value 0.0.0.0."
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 5 }

pimInterfaceHelloInterval OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The frequency at which PIM Hello messages are transmitted
            on this interface."
    DEFVAL     { 30 }
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 6 }

pimInterfaceStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current





Expires September 1997                                          [Page 7]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this entry.  Creating the entry enables PIM
            on the interface; destroying the entry disables PIM on the
            interface."
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 7 }

pimInterfaceJoinPruneInterval OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The frequency at which PIM Join/Prune messages are
            transmitted on this PIM interface.  The default value of
            this object is the pimJoinPruneInterval."
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 8 }

pimInterfaceCBSRPreference OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (-1..255)
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The preference value for the local interface as a candidate
            bootstrap router.  The value of -1 is used to indicate that
            the local interface is not a candidate BSR interface."
    DEFVAL     { 0 }
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 9 }


-- The PIM Neighbor Table

pimNeighborTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF PimNeighborEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing the router's PIM neighbors."
    ::= { pim 3 }

pimNeighborEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     PimNeighborEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the pimNeighborTable."





Expires September 1997                                          [Page 8]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


    INDEX      { pimNeighborAddress }
    ::= { pimNeighborTable 1 }

PimNeighborEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    pimNeighborAddress      IpAddress,
    pimNeighborIfIndex      Integer32,
    pimNeighborUpTime       TimeTicks,
    pimNeighborExpiryTime   TimeTicks,
    pimNeighborMode         INTEGER
}

pimNeighborAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the PIM neighbor for which this entry
            contains information."
    ::= { pimNeighborEntry 1 }

pimNeighborIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of ifIndex for the interface used to reach this
            PIM neighbor."
    ::= { pimNeighborEntry 2 }

pimNeighborUpTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The time since this PIM neighbor (last) became a neighbor
            of the local router."
    ::= { pimNeighborEntry 3 }

pimNeighborExpiryTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The minimum time remaining before this PIM neighbor will be
            aged out."





Expires September 1997                                          [Page 9]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


    ::= { pimNeighborEntry 4 }

pimNeighborMode OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER { dense(1), sparse(2) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The active PIM mode of this neighbor.  This object is
            deprecated for PIMv2 routers since all neighbors on the
            interface must be either dense or sparse as determined by
            the protocol running on the interface."
    ::= { pimNeighborEntry 5 }


-- The PIM RP Table

pimRPTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF PimRPEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing PIM version 1 information
            for the Rendezvous Points (RPs) for IP multicast groups.
            This table is deprecated since its function is replaced by
            the pimRPSetTable for PIM version 2."
    ::= { pim 5 }

pimRPEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     PimRPEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the pimRPTable.  There is one
            entry per RP address for each IP multicast group."
    INDEX      { pimRPGroupAddress, pimRPAddress }
    ::= { pimRPTable 1 }














Expires September 1997                                         [Page 10]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


PimRPEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    pimRPGroupAddress    IpAddress,
    pimRPAddress         IpAddress,
    pimRPState           INTEGER,
    pimRPStateTimer      TimeTicks,
    pimRPLastChange      TimeTicks,
    pimRPRowStatus       RowStatus
}

pimRPGroupAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP multicast group address for which this entry
            contains information about an RP."
    ::= { pimRPEntry 1 }

pimRPAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP multicast group address for which this entry
            contains PIM version 1 information about an RP."
    ::= { pimRPEntry 2 }

pimRPState OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER { up(1), down(2) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The state of the RP."
    ::= { pimRPEntry 3 }

pimRPStateTimer OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The minimum time remaining before the next state change.
            When pimRPState is up, this is the minimum time which must
            expire until it can be declared down.  When pimRPState is
            down, this is the time until it will be declared up (in
            order to retry)."





Expires September 1997                                         [Page 11]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


    ::= { pimRPEntry 4 }

pimRPLastChange OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of sysUpTime at the time when the corresponding
            instance of pimRPState last changed its value."
    ::= { pimRPEntry 5 }

pimRPRowStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this row, by which new entries may be
            created, or old entries deleted from this table."
    ::= { pimRPEntry 6 }


-- The PIM RP-Set Table

pimRPSetTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF PimRPSetEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing PIM information for
            candidate Rendezvous Points (RPs) for IP multicast groups.
            When the local router is the BSR, this information is
            obtained from received Candidate-RP-Advertisements.  When
            the local router is not the BSR, this information is
            obtained from received RP-Set messages."
    ::= { pim 6 }

pimRPSetEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     PimRPSetEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the pimRPSetTable."
    INDEX      { pimRPSetGroupAddress, pimRPSetGroupMask,
                 pimRPSetAddress }
    ::= { pimRPSetTable 1 }





Expires September 1997                                         [Page 12]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


PimRPSetEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    pimRPSetGroupAddress    IpAddress,
    pimRPSetGroupMask       IpAddress,
    pimRPSetAddress         IpAddress,
    pimRPSetHoldTime        Integer32,
    pimRPSetExpiryTime      TimeTicks
}

pimRPSetGroupAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP multicast group address which, when combined with
            pimRPSetGroupMask, gives the group prefix for which this
            entry contains information about the Candidate-RP."
    ::= { pimRPSetEntry 1 }

pimRPSetGroupMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The multicast group address mask which, when combined with
            pimRPSetGroupAddress, gives the group prefix for which this
            entry contains information about the Candidate-RP."
    ::= { pimRPSetEntry 2 }

pimRPSetAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the Candidate-RP."
    ::= { pimRPSetEntry 3 }

pimRPSetHoldTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..255)
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The holdtime of a Candidate-RP.  If the local router is not
            the BSR, this value is 0."
    ::= { pimRPSetEntry 4 }





Expires September 1997                                         [Page 13]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


pimRPSetExpiryTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The minimum time remaining before the Candidate-RP will be
            declared down.  If the local router is not the BSR, this
            value is 0."
    ::= { pimRPSetEntry 5 }


-- The PIM Candidate-RP Table

pimCandidateRPTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF PimCandidateRPEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing the IP multicast groups for
            which the local router is to advertise itself as a
            Candidate-RP when the value of pimCandidateRPHoldTime is
            non-zero.  If this table is empty, then the local router
            will advertise itself as a Candidate-RP for all groups
            (providing the value of pimCandidateRPHoldTime is non-
            zero)."
    ::= { pim 11 }

pimCandidateRPEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     PimCandidateRPEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the pimCandidateRPTable."
    INDEX      { pimCandidateRPGroupAddress,
                 pimCandidateRPGroupMask }
    ::= { pimCandidateRPTable 1 }

PimCandidateRPEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    pimCandidateRPGroupAddress    IpAddress,
    pimCandidateRPGroupMask       IpAddress,
    pimCandidateRPAddress         IpAddress,
    pimCandidateRPRowStatus       RowStatus
}

pimCandidateRPGroupAddress OBJECT-TYPE





Expires September 1997                                         [Page 14]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP multicast group address which, when combined with
            pimCandidateRPGroupMask, identifies a group prefix for which
            the local router will advertise itself as a Candidate-RP."
    ::= { pimCandidateRPEntry 1 }

pimCandidateRPGroupMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The multicast group address mask which, when combined with
            pimCandidateRPGroupMask, identifies a group prefix for which
            the local router will advertise itself as a Candidate-RP."
    ::= { pimCandidateRPEntry 2 }

pimCandidateRPAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (unicast) address of the interface which will be
            advertised as a Candidate-RP."
    ::= { pimCandidateRPEntry 3 }

pimCandidateRPRowStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this row, by which new entries may be
            created, or old entries deleted from this table."
    ::= { pimCandidateRPEntry 4 }














Expires September 1997                                         [Page 15]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


-- The PIM Component Table

pimComponentTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF PimComponentEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table containing objects specific to a PIM
            domain.  One row exists for each domain to which the router
            is connected."
    ::= { pim 12 }

pimComponentEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     PimComponentEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the pimComponentTable."
    INDEX      { pimComponentIndex }
    ::= { pimComponentTable 1 }

PimComponentEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    pimComponentIndex              Integer32,
    pimComponentBSRAddress         IpAddress,
    pimComponentBSRExpiryTime      TimeTicks,
    pimComponentCRPHoldTime        Integer32,
    pimComponentStatus             RowStatus
}

pimComponentIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A number uniquely identifying the component.  Each protocol
            instance connected to a separate domain should have a
            different index value."
    ::= { pimComponentEntry 1 }

pimComponentBSRAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the bootstrap router (BSR) for the local





Expires September 1997                                         [Page 16]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


            PIM region."
    ::= { pimComponentEntry 2 }

pimComponentBSRExpiryTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The minimum time remaining before the bootstrap router in
            the local domain will be declared down.  For candidate BSRs,
            this is the time until the component sends an RP-Set
            message.  For other routers, this is the time until it may
            accept an RP-Set message from a lower candidate BSR."
    ::= { pimComponentEntry 3 }

pimComponentCRPHoldTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..255)
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The holdtime of the component when it is a candidate RP in
            the local domain.  The value of 0 is used to indicate that
            the local system is not a Candidate-RP."
    DEFVAL     { 0 }
    ::= { pimComponentEntry 4 }

pimComponentStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this entry.  Creating the entry creates
            another protocol instance; destroying the entry disables a
            protocol instance."
    ::= { pimComponentEntry 5 }














Expires September 1997                                         [Page 17]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


-- conformance information

pimMIBConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { pimMIB 2 }
pimMIBCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { pimMIBConformance 1 }
pimMIBGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { pimMIBConformance 2 }


-- compliance statements

pimV1MIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for routers running PIMv1 and
            implementing the PIM MIB."
    MODULE  -- this module
        MANDATORY-GROUPS { pimV1MIBGroup }

    ::= { pimMIBCompliances 1 }

pimSparseV2MIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for routers running PIM Sparse
            Mode and implementing the PIM MIB."
    MODULE  -- this module
        MANDATORY-GROUPS { pimV2MIBGroup }

    OBJECT     pimInterfaceStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
             "Write access is not required."

    ::= { pimMIBCompliances 2 }

pimDenseV2MIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for routers running PIM Dense Mode
            and implementing the PIM MIB."
    MODULE  -- this module
        MANDATORY-GROUPS { pimDenseV2MIBGroup }

    OBJECT     pimInterfaceStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION





Expires September 1997                                         [Page 18]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


             "Write access is not required."

    ::= { pimMIBCompliances 3 }


-- units of conformance

pimV2MIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { pimJoinPruneInterval, pimNeighborIfIndex,
              pimNeighborUpTime, pimNeighborExpiryTime,
              pimInterfaceAddress, pimInterfaceNetMask,
              pimInterfaceDR, pimInterfaceHelloInterval,
              pimInterfaceStatus, pimInterfaceJoinPruneInterval,
              pimInterfaceCBSRPreference,
              pimRPSetHoldTime, pimRPSetExpiryTime,
              pimComponentBSRAddress, pimComponentBSRExpiryTime,
              pimComponentCRPHoldTime, pimComponentStatus
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects to support management of PIM Sparse
            Mode (version 2) routers."
    ::= { pimMIBGroups 2 }

pimDenseV2MIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { pimNeighborIfIndex,
              pimNeighborUpTime, pimNeighborExpiryTime,
              pimInterfaceAddress, pimInterfaceNetMask,
              pimInterfaceDR, pimInterfaceHelloInterval,
              pimInterfaceStatus
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects to support management of PIM Dense
            Mode (version 2) routers."
    ::= { pimMIBGroups 5 }

pimV2CandidateRPMIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { pimCandidateRPAddress,
              pimCandidateRPRowStatus
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects to support configuration of which
            groups a router is to advertise itself as a Candidate-RP."





Expires September 1997                                         [Page 19]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


    ::= { pimMIBGroups 3 }

pimV1MIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { pimJoinPruneInterval, pimNeighborIfIndex,
              pimNeighborUpTime, pimNeighborExpiryTime,
              pimNeighborMode,
              pimInterfaceAddress, pimInterfaceNetMask,
              pimInterfaceMode, pimInterfaceDR,
              pimInterfaceHelloInterval,
              pimRPState, pimRPStateTimer,
              pimRPLastChange, pimRPRowStatus
            }
    STATUS  deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects to support management of PIM
            (version 1) routers."
    ::= { pimMIBGroups 4 }

END































Expires September 1997                                         [Page 20]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


6.  Acknowledgements

This MIB module has been updated based on feedback from the IETF's
Inter-Domain Multicast Routing (IDMR) Working Group.



7.  References

[1]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, "Structure of Management Information for version 2
     of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902,
     January 1996.

[2]  McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II", STD 17,
     RFC 1213, March 1991.

[3]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin, "Simple Network
     Management Protocol", RFC 1157, May 1990.

[4]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, "Protocol Operations for version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

[5]  Deering, S., Estrin, D., Farinacci, D., Jacobson, V., Liu, G., and
     L. Wei, "Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM): Motivation and
     Architecture", January 1995.

[6]  Deering, S., Estrin, D., Farinacci, D., Jacobson, V., Liu, G., and
     L. Wei, "Protocol Independent Multicast (PIM): Protocol
     Specification", January 1995.

[7]  Estrin, D., Farinacci, D., Helmy, A., Thaler, D., Deering, S.,
     Handley, M., Jacobson, V., Liu, C., Sharma, P., and L. Wei,
     "Protocol Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM): Protocol
     Specification", November 1996.

[8]  Estrin, D., Farinacci, D., Jacobson, V., Liu, C., Wei, L., Sharma,
     P, and Helmy, A., "Protocol Independent Multicast-Dense Mode (PIM-
     DM): Protocol Specification", January 1996.









Expires September 1997                                         [Page 21]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


8.  Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.



9.  Author's Address

     Keith McCloghrie
     cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive
     San Jose, CA  95134-1706
     Phone: +1 408 526 5260
     EMail: kzm@cisco.com

     Dino Farinacci
     cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive
     San Jose, CA  95134-1706
     Phone: +1 408 526 4696
     EMail: dino@cisco.com

     Dave Thaler
     Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
     University of Michigan
     1301 Beal Ave.
     Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2122
     Phone: +1 313 763 5243
     EMail: thalerd@eecs.umich.edu





















Expires September 1997                                         [Page 22]





Draft                           PIM MIB                       March 1997


Table of Contents


1 Introduction ....................................................    1
2 Revision History ................................................    2
3 The SNMP Network Management Framework ...........................    3
3.1 Object Definitions ............................................    3
4 Overview ........................................................    3
5 Definitions .....................................................    5
6 Acknowledgements ................................................   21
7 References ......................................................   21
8 Security Considerations .........................................   22
9 Author's Address ................................................   22





































Expires September 1997                                         [Page 23]

