
Network Working Group                                           J. Galvin
INTERNET DRAFT                                                        TIS
draft-ietf-poised95-nomcom-00.txt                          September 1995


       IAB and IESG Selection, Confirmation, and Recall Process:
           Operation of the Nominating and Recall Committees



Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet Draft.  Internet Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its Areas, and
its Working Groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet Drafts.

Internet Drafts are valid for a maximum of six months and may be
updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any time.  It is
inappropriate to use Internet Drafts as reference material or to cite
them other than as ``work in progress''.

To learn the current status of any Internet Draft, please check the
1id-abstracts.txt listing contained in one of the Internet Drafts Shadow
Directories on ds.internic.net (US East Coast), venera.isi.edu (US West
Coast), munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim), or nic.nordu.net (Europe).

Abstract

The process by which the members of the IAB and IESG are selected,
confirmed, and recalled has been exercised three times since its formal
creation.  The evolution of the process has relied principally on oral
tradition as a means by which the lessons learned could be passed on to
successive committees.  This document is a self-consistent, organized
compilation of the process as it is known today.

1.  Introduction

By 1992, many aspects of the operation of the Internet Architecture
Board (IAB), Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), and the Internet
Engineering Steering Group (IESG) had been reviewed and changes were
being implemented.  Included in those changes was the process by which
members of the IAB and IESG are selected, confirmed, and recalled.
Since 1992, the process of selection and confirmation has been exercised
three times: 1992, 1993, and 1994.  The recall process has not been





Galvin                    Expires: March 1996                   [Page 1]

INTERNET DRAFT        NOMCOM and Recall Operation         September 1995


exercised.

A single paragraph in RFC1602 is the extent to which the process has
been formally recorded to date.  Informally, following the 1992 exercise
of the process, an internet draft was distributed recording many of the
details of the operation of that first nominating committee.  In
addition, in both 1994 and 1995, the POISED working group met, which
facilitated the "oral tradition" transference of the selection and
confirmation process lessons learned, including the email archives of
the working group mailing list.  This document is a self-consistent,
organized compilation of the process as described by each of these
sources.

The process described here includes only items for which the consensus
of those participating in the various discussions was easily recognized.
As a result, two assumptions are made.

(1)  The IRTF and IRSG are not a part of the process described here.

(2)  The organization (and re-organization) of the IESG is not a part of
     the process described here.

The remainder of this document is divided into four major topics as
follows.

General
     This a set of rules and constraints that apply to the selection and
     confirmation process as a whole.

Nominating Committee Selection
     This is the process by which volunteers from the IETF community are
     recognized to serve on the committee that nominates candidates to
     serve on the IESG and IAB.

Nominating Committee Operation
     This is the set of principles, rules, and constraints that guide
     the activities of the nominating committee, including the
     confirmation process.

Member Recall
     This is the process by which the behavior of a sitting member of
     the IESG or IAB may be questioned, perhaps resulting in the removal
     of the sitting member.







Galvin                    Expires: March 1996                   [Page 2]

INTERNET DRAFT        NOMCOM and Recall Operation         September 1995


2.  General

The following set of rules apply to the selection and confirmation
process as a whole.  If necessary, a paragraph discussing the
interpretation of each rule is included.

(1)  The principal function of the nominating committee is to nominate
     candidates for open IESG and IAB seats.

     The nominating committee does not select the open seats to be
     refilled; it is instructed as to which seats to refill.  At a
     minimum, the nominating committee will be given the title of the
     seat to be filled.  The nominating committee may be given a
     desirable set of qualifications for the candidates nominated to
     fill a seat.  The nominating committee does not confirm its
     nominees; it presents its slate of nominees to the appropriate
     confirming body as indicated below.

(2)  The selection and confirmation process must be completed within 3
     months.

     The selection and confirmation process must be completed on the
     friday of the week before the Spring IETF.  It begins 3 months
     prior to that date.

(3)  One-half of each of the then current IESG and IAB seats is selected
     to be refilled each year.

     A given seat is selected every other year.  In this way, never more
     than 50% of the sitting IESG and IAB members is replaced in any one
     year.

     A seat may be refilled with its sitting member, if the sitting
     member is nominated by the nominating committee.

(4)  Confirmed candidates are expected to serve at least a 2 year term.

     The nominal 2 year term of a confirmed candidate begins the day
     after the last day of the Spring IETF meeting.  The term ends on
     the last day of the second Spring IETF meeting following the
     beginning of the term.

(5)  Mid-term IESG vacancies are filled by the sitting IESG members by
     appointment for the remainder of the term of the vacant seat.






Galvin                    Expires: March 1996                   [Page 3]

INTERNET DRAFT        NOMCOM and Recall Operation         September 1995


(6)  Mid-term IAB vacancies are filled by the sitting IAB members by
     appointment for the remainder of the term of the vacant seat.

(7)  Unless otherwise specified, the advise and consent model is used
     throughout the process.  This model is characterized as follows.

a.   The Internet Society President advises the nominating committee of
     the IESG and IAB seats to be refilled.

b.   The nominating committee nominates candidates and advises the
     confirming bodies of the nominees.

c.   The sitting IAB members review the IESG nominees, consenting to
     some, all, or none.

     If all of the nominees are confirmed, the job of the nominating
     committee with respect to filling the open IESG seats is considered
     complete.  If some or none of the nominees are confirmed, the
     nominating committee must reconvene to select alternate candidates
     for the rejected nominees.  Any additional time required by the
     nominating committee must not exceed its maximum time allotment.

d.   The Internet Society Board of Trustees reviews the IAB nominees,
     consenting to some, all, or none.

     If all of the nominees are confirmed, the job of the nominating
     committee with respect to filling the open IAB seats is considered
     complete.  If some or none of the nominees are confirmed, the
     nominating committee must reconvene to select alternate candidates
     for the rejected nominees.  Any additional time required by the
     nominating committee must not exceed its maximum time allotment.

e.   The confirming bodies decide their consent according to a mechanism
     of their own choosing.

     Sitting members of the confirming bodies must agree to confirm
     individual nominees.  The agreement may be decided by conducting a
     formal vote, by asserting consensus based on informal
     conversations, or by whatever mechanism is used to conduct the
     normal business of the confirming body.

3.  Nominating Committee Selection

The following set of rules apply to the creation of the nominating
committee and the selection of its members.





Galvin                    Expires: March 1996                   [Page 4]

INTERNET DRAFT        NOMCOM and Recall Operation         September 1995


(1)  The committee is comprised of a non-voting Chair, 10 voting
     volunteers, and 2 non-voting liaisons.

(2)  The Internet Society President appoints the non-voting Chair.

(3)  The Chair solicits and collects the names of volunteers from the
     IETF community willing to serve on the nominating committee.

     At a minimum, the solicitation for names must be publicized using
     the same mechanisms used by the IETF secretariat for its
     announcements.

(4)  Members of the IETF community must have attended at least 2 of the
     last 3 IETF meetings in order to volunteer.

(5)  Internet Society Board of Trustees, sitting members of the IAB, and
     sitting members of the IESG may not volunteer.

(6)  The Chair randomly selects the 10 voting volunteers from the pool
     of names of volunteers.

(7)  The sitting IAB and IESG members each appoint from their current
     membership a non-voting liaison to the nominating committee.

4.  Nominating Committee Operation

The following rules apply to the operation of the nominating committee.
If necessary, a paragraph discussing the interpretation of each rule is
included.

(1)  All rules not otherwise specified are at the discretion of the
     Chair.

     Exceptional circumstances will occasionally arise during the normal
     operation of the nominating committee.  This rule is intended to
     foster the continued forward progress of the committee.  All
     members of the committee should consider whether the exception is
     worthy of mention in the next revision of this document and
     followup accordingly.

(2)  The principal purpose of the nominating committee is to nominate
     candidates for the open positions indicated by the Internet Society
     President.







Galvin                    Expires: March 1996                   [Page 5]

INTERNET DRAFT        NOMCOM and Recall Operation         September 1995


(3)  The Chair must establish and publicize milestones.

     There is a defined time period during which the selection and
     confirmation process must be completed.  The Chair must establish a
     set of milestones which, if met in a timely fashion, will result in
     the completion of the process on time.  The Chair should allow time
     for iterating the activities of the committee if one or more
     nominees is not confirmed.

     The milestones must be publicized using the same mechanisms used by
     the IETF secretariat for its announcements.

(4)  The Chair must establish a voting mechanism.

     The committee must be able to objectively determine when a decision
     has been made during its deliberations.  The criteria for
     determining closure must be established and known to all members of
     the nominating committee.

(5)  At least 7 voting members are required for a quorum.

(6)  The Chair may establish a process by which a member of the
     nominating committee may be recalled.

     The process, if established, must be agreed to by all members of
     the nominating committee, including the non-voting members since
     they would be subject to the same process.

(7)  All members of the nominating committee may participate in all
     deliberations.

     The emphasis of this rule is that no member, whether voting or
     non-voting, can be explicitly excluded from any deliberation.
     However, a member may individually choose not to participate in a
     deliberation.

(8)  All deliberations and supporting information of the nominating
     committee and confirming bodies are private.

(9)  Nominees may be publicly announced as soon as they are confirmed
     but no sooner.

     Up until the time a nominee is confirmed, the identity of a nominee
     must be kept strictly confidential.  The fact that a person is
     being considered for candidacy must be kept strictly confidential.





Galvin                    Expires: March 1996                   [Page 6]

INTERNET DRAFT        NOMCOM and Recall Operation         September 1995


     The fact that an incumbent may wish to be re-nominated must be kept
     strictly confidential (except that the incumbent may publicize
     their intentions).  However, once a nominee is confirmed, the
     identity of the confirmed nominee may be publicized.  This is
     explicitly intended to allow confirming bodies to notify confirmed
     nominees in a timely fashion instead of requiring all nominees to
     wait until all open seats have been refilled.

(10) The confirming body announces confirmed nominees, including
     notifying the confirmed nominees.

     At a minimum, the announcement must be publicized using the same
     mechanisms used by the IETF secretariat for its announcements.

(11) Nominating committee members may not be nominated for any open
     seat.

(12) The nominating committee selects nominees based on its
     understanding of the IETF community's consensus of the
     qualifications required to fill the open positions.

(13) Candidate nominees should be advised that they are being considered
     and must consent to their nomination prior to being confirmed.

     The nominating committee should help candidate nominees provide
     justification to their employers.

     A candidate nominee's consent must include a commitment to provide
     the resources necessary to fill the open seat.

(14) The nominating committee advises the confirming bodies of their
     nominees, including a testament of how each nominee meets the
     qualifications of an open position.

5.  Member Recall

The following rules apply to the recall process.  If necessary, a
paragraph discussing the interpretation of each rule is included.

(1)  Anyone may request the recall of any sitting IAB or IESG member, at
     any time, upon written (including email) request with justification
     to the Internet Society President.

(2)  Internet Society President shall appoint a Recall Committee Chair.






Galvin                    Expires: March 1996                   [Page 7]

INTERNET DRAFT        NOMCOM and Recall Operation         September 1995


     The Internet Society President must not evaluate the recall
     request.  It is explicitly the responsibility of the IETF community
     to evaluate the behavior of its leaders.

(3)  The recall committee is created according to the same rules as is
     the nominating committee with the qualification that the person
     being investigated and the person requesting the recall must not be
     a member of the recall committee in any capacity.

(4)  The recall committee operates according to the same rules as the
     nominating committee with the qualification that there is no
     confirmation process.

(5)  The recall committee investigates the circumstances of the
     justification for the recall and votes on its findings.

(6)  A 3/4 majority of the members who vote on the question is required
     for a recall.

     If a sitting member is recalled the open position is to be filled
     according to the mid-term vacancy rules.

6.  Security Considerations

Any selection, confirmation, or recall process necessarily involves
investigation into the qualifications and activities of prospective
candidates.  The investigation may reveal confidential or otherwise
private information about candidates to those participating in the
process.  Each person who participates in any aspect of the process has
a responsibility to maintain the confidentiality of any and all
information not explicitly identified as suitable for public
dissemination.

7.  Editor's Address

    James M. Galvin
    Trusted Information Systems
    3060 Washington Road
    Glenwood, MD 21738

    Email: galvin@tis.com
    Phone: 301.854.6889
    FAX: 301.854.5363







Galvin                    Expires: March 1996                   [Page 8]

INTERNET DRAFT        NOMCOM and Recall Operation         September 1995


Table of Contents


 Status of this Memo ..............................................    1
 Abstract .........................................................    1
1 Introduction ....................................................    1
2 General .........................................................    3
3 Nominating Committee Selection ..................................    4
4 Nominating Committee Operation ..................................    5
5 Member Recall ...................................................    7
6 Security Considerations .........................................    8
7 Editor's Address ................................................    8






































Galvin                    Expires: March 1996                   [Page 9]

