

Network Working Group                                           J. Brase
Internet-Draft                                             	     TIB
Expires: February 2005                                       August 2004

                    Request for the URN namespace "tib"
		      	for scientific primary data
		         draft-brase-urn-tib-01.txt

Status of this Memo

   By submitting this Internet-Draft, I certify that any applicable
   patent or other IPR claims of which I am aware have been disclosed,
   and any of which I become aware will be disclosed, in accordance with
   RFC 3668.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups. Note that other
   groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time. It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at http://
   www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt.

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

   This Internet-Draft will expire in February 2005.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2004). All Rights Reserved.

Abstract

The German research agency (DFG) has started a project in 2004 to 
improve the access to primary data especially for interdisciplinary 
data use. Publications of primary data should be citable as 
publications so that the data set may be cited together with the author
 when being used further. 
By this, scientific primary data should not be exclusively understood 
as part of a scientific publication, but may have its own identity. 
The data records remain at their research institutes, but the metadata
 records will be stored at the German national library of Science and 
Technology (TIB) as a central registration agency, the data records are
 identified with a DOI as a persistent identifier. In cooperation with 
the German Library the data record shall also be registered with an 
urn.



Brase                   Expires February 2005                   [Page 1]

Internet-Draft        					     August 2005
   Request for the URN namespace "tib" for scientific primary data

2. Specification Template

   	Namespace ID: "tib"

Registration information:

Version: 1
Date: 2004-08-13

Declared registrant of the namespace:

Affiliation: 
German national library of Science and Technology (TIB)

Address:
Welfengarten 1b 
D-30167 Hannover
Germany

Name:
Jan Brase
eMail:	
brase@kbs.uni-hannover.de

 








							      
Declaration of structure:

The identifier structure is as follows:

URN:tib:10.1594/<ResAgency>/<assigned Filename>

Where <ResAgency> is the abbreviation of a research institute and 
<assigned Filename> is the internal filename of the dataset conformant 
to URN syntax requirements.

The structure is equivalent to the DOI structure for scientific primary
 data, as the TIB is a member of the DOI foundation as a registration 
agency for scientific primary data (DOI prefix 10.1594)





Brase                   Expires February 2005                   [Page 2]

Internet-Draft        					     August 2005
   Request for the URN namespace "tib" for scientific primary data

Resolving

The TIB is cooperating together with the German Library (DDB) in 
Frankfurt Germany. Since 2001 the DDB is administrating and 
registrating URNs for online dissertations with the URN namespace 
URN:nbn.
For resolving the URNs for scientific data the TIB will use the 
resolving tools of the DDB.


Reference

More information about the project ôciting of scientific primary dataö
 can be found at http://www.std-doi.de. 
More information about the URN management of the DDB for online 
dissertations can be found at 
http://www.persistent-identifier.de/?link=311&lang=en

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2004).  This document is subject
to the rights, licenses and restrictions contained in BCP 78, and
except as set forth therein, the authors retain all their rights."

This document and the information contained herein are provided on an
"AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE REPRESENTS
OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET
ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
	






















Brase                   Expires February 2005                   [Page 3]

