



Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


       Integrated Services Management Information Base
                draft-ietf-intserv-mib-05.txt

                 Thu Jan 30 19:54:48 PST 1997


                          Fred Baker

                        Cisco Systems
                        519 Lado Drive
               Santa Barbara, California 93111

                        fred@cisco.com


                        John Krawczyk

                      Bay Networks, Inc
                       2 Federal Street
                Billerica, Massachusetts 01821

                      jj@BayNetworks.com






1.  Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet Draft.  Internet Drafts are
working documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force
(IETF), its Areas, and its Working Groups. Note that other
groups may also distribute working documents as Internet
Drafts.

Internet Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
months. Internet Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted
by other documents at any time.  It is not appropriate to use
Internet Drafts as reference material or to cite them other
than as a "working draft" or "work in progress."

Please check the I-D abstract listing contained in each
Internet Draft directory to learn the current status of this
or any other Internet Draft.





Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997               [Page 1]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


2.  Abstract

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base
(MIB) for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-
based internets.  In particular, it defines objects for
managing the the interface attributes defined in the
Integrated Services Model.  Comments should be made to the
Integrated Services Working Group, int-serv@isi.edu.

This memo does not, in its draft form, specify a standard for
the Internet community.







































Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997               [Page 2]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


3.  The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework

The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework consists of four major
components.  They are:

o    RFC 1441 which defines the SMI, the mechanisms used for
     describing and naming objects for the purpose of
     management.

o    RFC 1213 defines MIB-II, the core set of managed objects
     for the Internet suite of protocols.

o    RFC 1445 which defines the administrative and other
     architectural aspects of the framework.

o    RFC 1448 which defines the protocol used for network
     access to managed objects.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the
purpose of experimentation and evaluation.


3.1.  Object Definitions

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store,
termed the Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the
MIB are defined using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation
One (ASN.1) defined in the SMI.  In particular, each object
type is named by an OBJECT IDENTIFIER, an administratively
assigned name.  The object type together with an object
instance serves to uniquely identify a specific instantiation
of the object.  For human convenience, we often use a textual
string, termed the descriptor, to refer to the object type.


4.  Overview

4.1.  Textual Conventions

Several new data types are introduced as a textual convention
in this MIB document.  These textual conventions enhance the
readability of the specification and can ease comparison with
other specifications if appropriate.  It should be noted that
the introduction of the these textual conventions has no
effect on either the syntax nor the semantics of any managed





Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997               [Page 3]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


objects.  The use of these is merely an artifact of the
explanatory method used.  Objects defined in terms of one of
these methods are always encoded by means of the rules that
define the primitive type.  Hence, no changes to the SMI or
the SNMP are necessary to accommodate these textual
conventions which are adopted merely for the convenience of
readers and writers in pursuit of the elusive goal of clear,
concise, and unambiguous MIB documents.

4.2.  Structure of MIB

The MIB is composed of the following sections:
     Integrated Services
          Interface Attributes Table
          Interface Flow Table



































Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997               [Page 4]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


5.  Definitions

INTEGRATED-SERVICES-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

    IMPORTS
            MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, Counter32, IpAddress,
            Gauge32, Integer32, experimental         FROM SNMPv2-SMI
            TimeInterval, TEXTUAL-CONVENTION, RowStatus,
            TruthValue                               FROM SNMPv2-TC
            MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP          FROM SNMPv2-CONF
            ifIndex, InterfaceIndex                  FROM IF-MIB;

--  This MIB module uses the extended OBJECT-TYPE macro as
--  defined in [9].

intSrv MODULE-IDENTITY
        LAST-UPDATED "9701301954Z" -- Thu Jan 30 19:54:48 PST 1997
        ORGANIZATION "IETF Integrated Services Working Group"
        CONTACT-INFO
       "       Fred Baker
       Postal: Cisco Systems
               519 Lado Drive
               Santa Barbara, California 93111
       Tel:    +1 805 681 0115
       E-Mail: fred@cisco.com

               John Krawczyk
       Postal: Bay Networks, Inc
               2 Federal Street
               Billerica, Massachusetts 01821
       Tel:    +1 508 436 3811
       E-Mail: jj@BayNetworks.com"
    DESCRIPTION
       "The MIB module to describe the Integrated Services
       Protocol"
    ::= { experimental 72 }

intSrvObjects          OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { intSrv 1 }
intSrvNotifications    OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { intSrv 2 }
intSrvConformance      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { intSrv 3 }

-- Textual Conventions
--







Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997               [Page 5]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


    SessionNumber ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Session  Number  convention  is  used  for
           numbers  identifying  sessions or saved PATH or
           RESV information. It is a number in  the  range
           returned  by  a TestAndIncr variable, having no
           protocol meaning whatsoever but serving instead
           as simple identifier.

           The alternative was a very complex instance  or
           instance object that became unwieldy."
       SYNTAX   INTEGER (0..2147483647)


    Protocol ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
        DISPLAY-HINT "d"
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value of the IP Protocol field  of  an  IP
           Datagram  Header.  This identifies the protocol
           layer above IP.  For example, the  value  6  is
           used  for TCP and the value 17 is used for UDP.
           The values of this field are defined in the As-
           signed Numbers RFC."
       SYNTAX   INTEGER (1..255)


    SessionType ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value of the C-Type field of a Session ob-
           ject,  as  defined  in  the RSVP specification.
           This value  determines  the  lengths  of  octet
           strings  and use of certain objects such as the
           'port' variables. If the C-Type  calls  for  an
           IP6  address, one would expect all source, des-
           tination, and next/previous hop addresses to be
           16  bytes long, and for the ports to be UDP/TCP
           port numbers, for example."
       SYNTAX   INTEGER (1..255)









Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997               [Page 6]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


    Port ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
        DISPLAY-HINT "d"
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value of the UDP or TCP Source or Destina-
           tion  Port field, a virtual destination port or
           generalized port identifier used with the IPSEC
           Authentication Header or Encapsulating Security
           Payload, or other session discriminator.  If it
           is  not  used, the value should be of length 0.
           This pair, when coupled with the  IP  Addresses
           of the source and destination system and the IP
           protocol  field,  uniquely  identifies  a  data
           stream."
       SYNTAX   OCTET STRING (SIZE(2..4))


    MessageSize ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
        DISPLAY-HINT "d"
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The size of a message in bytes. This  is  used
           to  specify  the  minimum and maximum size of a
           message along an integrated services route."
       SYNTAX   INTEGER (0..'7FFFFFFF'h)


    BitRate ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
        DISPLAY-HINT "d"
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The rate, in bits/second, that data  may  move
           in  the context.  Applicable contexts minimally
           include the speed of an  interface  or  virtual
           circuit, the data rate of a (potentially aggre-
           gated) data flow, or the data rate to be  allo-
           cated for use by a flow."
       SYNTAX   INTEGER (0..'7FFFFFFF'h)












Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997               [Page 7]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


    BurstSize ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
         DISPLAY-HINT "d"
         STATUS   current
         DESCRIPTION
           "The number of octets of IP Data, including  IP
           Headers, that a stream may send without concern
           for policing."
        SYNTAX   INTEGER (0..'7FFFFFFF'h)


    QosService ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
         STATUS   current
         DESCRIPTION
           "The class of service in use by a flow."
        SYNTAX   INTEGER {
                   bestEffort (1),         -- Best Effort Service
                   guaranteedDelay (2),    -- Guaranteed Delay
                   controlledLoad (5)      -- Controlled Load
                 }































Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997               [Page 8]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


--      The Integrated Services Interface Attributes Database contains
--      information about resources allocated by resource reservation
--      protocols, such as RSVP and ST-II.


    intSrvIfAttribTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF IntSrvIfAttribEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The reservable attributes of the system's  in-
           terfaces."
       ::= { intSrvObjects 1 }


    intSrvIfAttribEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      IntSrvIfAttribEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The reservable attributes of  a  given  inter-
           face."
       INDEX { ifIndex }
       ::= { intSrvIfAttribTable 1 }

IntSrvIfAttribEntry ::=
    SEQUENCE {
        intSrvIfAttribAllocatedBits     BitRate,
        intSrvIfAttribMaxAllocatedBits  BitRate,
        intSrvIfAttribAllocatedBuffer   BurstSize,
        intSrvIfAttribFlows             Gauge32,
        intSrvIfAttribPropagationDelay  Integer32,
        intSrvIfAttribStatus            RowStatus
    }

    intSrvIfAttribAllocatedBits OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      BitRate
        UNITS       "Bits per second"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of bits/second currently  allocated
           to reserved sessions on the interface."
       ::= { intSrvIfAttribEntry 1 }






Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997               [Page 9]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


    intSrvIfAttribMaxAllocatedBits OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      BitRate
        UNITS       "Bits per second"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The maximum number of bits/second that may  be
           allocated  to  reserved  sessions on the inter-
           face."
       ::= { intSrvIfAttribEntry 2 }


    intSrvIfAttribAllocatedBuffer OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      BurstSize
        UNITS       "Bytes"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The amount of buffer space  required  to  hold
           the simultaneous burst of all reserved flows on
           the interface."
       ::= { intSrvIfAttribEntry 3 }


    intSrvIfAttribFlows OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Gauge32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of reserved flows currently  active
           on  this  interface.  A flow can be created ei-
           ther from a reservation protocol (such as  RSVP
           or ST-II) or via configuration information."
       ::= { intSrvIfAttribEntry 4 }
















Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 10]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


    intSrvIfAttribPropagationDelay OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Integer32
        UNITS       "microseconds"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The amount of propagation delay that this  in-
           terface  introduces  in  addition to that which
           would be expected by dividing the message  size
           in  bits  by  its  bit  rate.  For example, one
           would expect a typical satellite  link  to  add
           272  milliseconds  in  addition  to the bit de-
           lays."
       DEFVAL { 0 }-- by default, interfaces are presumed to add no extra delays
       ::= { intSrvIfAttribEntry 5 }


    intSrvIfAttribStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RowStatus
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "'active' on interfaces that are configured for
           RSVP."
       ::= { intSrvIfAttribEntry 6 }

























Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 11]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


--      The Integrated Services Active Flows Database
--      lists all flows active on an outgoing interface, including
--      relevant attributes.


    intSrvFlowTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF IntSrvFlowEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Information describing the reserved flows  us-
           ing the system's interfaces."
       ::= { intSrvObjects 2 }


    intSrvFlowEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      IntSrvFlowEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Information describing the use of a given  in-
           terface   by   a   given   flow.   The  counter
           intSrvFlowPoliced starts counting  at  the  in-
           stallation of the flow."
       INDEX { intSrvFlowNumber }
       ::= { intSrvFlowTable 1 }
























Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 12]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


    IntSrvFlowEntry ::=
        SEQUENCE {
            intSrvFlowNumber                  SessionNumber,
            intSrvFlowType                    SessionType,
            intSrvFlowOwner                   INTEGER,
            intSrvFlowDestAddr                OCTET STRING,
            intSrvFlowSenderAddr              OCTET STRING,
            intSrvFlowDestAddrLength          INTEGER,
            intSrvFlowSenderAddrLength        INTEGER,
            intSrvFlowProtocol                Protocol,
            intSrvFlowDestPort                Port,
            intSrvFlowPort                    Port,
            intSrvFlowInterface               InterfaceIndex,
            intSrvFlowIfAddr                  IpAddress,
            intSrvFlowRate                    BitRate,
            intSrvFlowBurst                   BurstSize,
            intSrvFlowWeight                  Integer32,
            intSrvFlowQueue                   Integer32,
            intSrvFlowMinTU                   MessageSize,
            intSrvFlowDontAsk                 TimeInterval,
            intSrvFlowPoliced                 Counter32,
            intSrvFlowDiscard                 TruthValue,
            intSrvFlowService                 QosService,
            intSrvFlowOrder                   INTEGER,
            intSrvFlowStatus                  RowStatus
        }


    intSrvFlowNumber OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SessionNumber
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of this flow.  This is for SNMP In-
           dexing purposes only and has no relation to any
           protocol value."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 1 }













Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 13]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


    intSrvFlowType OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SessionType
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The type of session (IP4, IP6, IP6  with  flow
           information, etc)."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 2 }


    intSrvFlowOwner OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                         rsvp(1),
                         management(2),
                         other(3)
                    }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The process that installed this  flow  in  the
           queue policy database."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 3 }


    intSrvFlowDestAddr OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING (SIZE(4..16))
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The destination address used by all senders in
           this  session.   This object may not be changed
           when the value of the RowStatus object is  'ac-
           tive'."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 4 }
















Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 14]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


    intSrvFlowSenderAddr OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING (SIZE(4..16))
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The source address of the sender  selected  by
           this  reservation.  The value of all zeroes in-
           dicates 'all senders'.  This object may not  be
           changed  when the value of the RowStatus object
           is 'active'."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 5 }


    intSrvFlowDestAddrLength OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER(0..128)
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The length of the destination address in bits.
           This  is  the CIDR Prefix Length, which for IP4
           hosts and multicast addresses is 32 bits.  This
           object may not be changed when the value of the
           RowStatus object is 'active'."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 6 }


    intSrvFlowSenderAddrLength OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER(0..128)
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The length of the sender's  address  in  bits.
           This  is  the CIDR Prefix Length, which for IP4
           hosts and multicast addresses is 32 bits.  This
           object may not be changed when the value of the
           RowStatus object is 'active'."
               ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 7 }













Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 15]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


    intSrvFlowProtocol OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Protocol
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The IP Protocol used by a session.   This  ob-
           ject  may  not be changed when the value of the
           RowStatus object is 'active'."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 8 }


    intSrvFlowDestPort OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Port
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The UDP or TCP port number used as a  destina-
           tion  port for all senders in this session.  If
           the  IP   protocol   in   use,   specified   by
           intSrvResvFwdProtocol,  is 50 (ESP) or 51 (AH),
           this  represents  a  virtual  destination  port
           number.   A value of zero indicates that the IP
           protocol in use does not have ports.  This  ob-
           ject  may  not be changed when the value of the
           RowStatus object is 'active'."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 9 }


    intSrvFlowPort OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Port
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The UDP or TCP port number used  as  a  source
           port  for  this sender in this session.  If the
           IP    protocol    in    use,    specified    by
           intSrvResvFwdProtocol  is  50 (ESP) or 51 (AH),
           this represents a generalized  port  identifier
           (GPI).   A  value of zero indicates that the IP
           protocol in use does not have ports.  This  ob-
           ject  may  not be changed when the value of the
           RowStatus object is 'active'."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 10 }







Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 16]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


    intSrvFlowInterface OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      InterfaceIndex
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The ifIndex value of the  interface  on  which
           this reservation exists."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 11 }


    intSrvFlowIfAddr OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      IpAddress
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The IP Address on the ifEntry  on  which  this
           reservation  exists.  This is present primarily
           to support those interfaces which layer  multi-
           ple IP Addresses on the interface."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 12 }


    intSrvFlowRate OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      BitRate
        UNITS       "bits per second"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Reserved Rate of the sender's data stream.
           If this is a Controlled Load service flow, this
           rate is derived from the Tspec  rate  parameter
           (r).   If  this  is  a Guaranteed service flow,
           this rate is derived from  the  Rspec  clearing
           rate parameter (R)."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 13 }















Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 17]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


    intSrvFlowBurst OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      BurstSize
        UNITS       "bytes"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The size of the largest  burst  expected  from
           the sender at a time.

           If this is less than  the  sender's  advertised
           burst  size, the receiver is asking the network
           to provide flow pacing  beyond  what  would  be
           provided  under normal circumstances. Such pac-
           ing is at the network's option."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 14 }


    intSrvFlowWeight OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Integer32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The weight used  to  prioritize  the  traffic.
           Note  that the interpretation of this object is
           implementation-specific,   as   implementations
           vary in their use of weighting procedures."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 15 }


    intSrvFlowQueue OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Integer32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of the queue used by this  traffic.
           Note  that the interpretation of this object is
           implementation-specific,   as   implementations
           vary in their use of queue identifiers."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 16 }











Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 18]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


    intSrvFlowMinTU OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      MessageSize
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The minimum message size for  this  flow.  The
           policing  algorithm will treat smaller messages
           as though they are this size."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 17 }


    intSrvFlowDontAsk OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TimeInterval
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "A period of time, measured in hundredths of  a
           second,  during  which  the  agent is precluded
           from sending a newFlow  notification  for  this
           conversation.

           If   an    authorizing    application    leaves
           intSrvFlowStatus in a state other than 'active'
           and sets intSrvFlowDontAsk to a non-zero value,
           the agent must neither consider the flow active
           for  admission  or  queuing  purposes,  or  re-
           request  authorization to install it, until the
           indicated amount of time has elapsed."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 18 }


    intSrvFlowPoliced OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Counter32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of packets policed since the incep-
           tion of the flow's service."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 19 }











Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 19]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


    intSrvFlowDiscard OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TruthValue
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "If 'true', the flow  is  to  incur  loss  when
           traffic is policed.  If 'false', policed traff-
           ic is treated as best effort traffic."
       DEFVAL { false } -- traffic is, by default, treated as best effort
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 20 }


    intSrvFlowService OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      QosService
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The QoS service being applied to this flow."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 21 }


    intSrvFlowOrder OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..65535)
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "In the event of ambiguity, the order in  which
           the  classifier  should  make  its comparisons.
           The row with intSrvFlowOrder=0 is tried  first,
           and  comparisons  proceed  in  the order of in-
           creasing value.  Non-serial implementations  of
           the classifier should emulate this behavior."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 22 }

















Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 20]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


    intSrvFlowStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RowStatus
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "'active' for all active  flows.   This  object
           may be used to install static classifier infor-
           mation, delete classifier information,  or  au-
           thorize such."
       ::= { intSrvFlowEntry 23 }








































Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 21]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


-- conformance information


intSrvGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { intSrvConformance 1 }
intSrvCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { intSrvConformance 2 }

-- compliance statements











































Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 22]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


    intSrvCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The compliance statement "
       MODULE  -- this module
       MANDATORY-GROUPS { intSrvIfAttribGroup, intSrvFlowsGroup }

       OBJECT       intSrvFlowType
         MIN-ACCESS read-only
         DESCRIPTION
          "read-create access is not required. This may be
          read-only."

      OBJECT       intSrvFlowOwner
        MIN-ACCESS read-only
        DESCRIPTION
         "read-create access is not required. This may  be
         read-only."

     OBJECT       intSrvFlowDestAddr
       MIN-ACCESS read-only
       DESCRIPTION
        "read-create access is not required. This  may  be
        read-only."

    OBJECT       intSrvFlowSenderAddr
      MIN-ACCESS read-only
      DESCRIPTION
       "read-create access is not required.  This  may  be
       read-only."

    OBJECT       intSrvFlowDestAddrLength
      MIN-ACCESS read-only
      DESCRIPTION
       "read-create access is not required.  This  may  be
       read-only."

    OBJECT       intSrvFlowSenderAddrLength
      MIN-ACCESS read-only
      DESCRIPTION
       "read-create access is not required.  This  may  be
       read-only."

    OBJECT       intSrvFlowProtocol
      MIN-ACCESS read-only





Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 23]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


      DESCRIPTION
       "read-create access is not required.  This  may  be
       read-only."

    OBJECT       intSrvFlowDestPort
      MIN-ACCESS read-only
      DESCRIPTION
       "read-create access is not required.  This  may  be
       read-only."

    OBJECT       intSrvFlowPort
      MIN-ACCESS read-only
      DESCRIPTION
       "read-create access is not required.  This  may  be
       read-only."

    OBJECT       intSrvFlowInterface
      MIN-ACCESS read-only
      DESCRIPTION
       "read-create access is not required.  This  may  be
       read-only."

    OBJECT       intSrvFlowRate
      MIN-ACCESS read-only
      DESCRIPTION
       "read-create access is not required.  This  may  be
       read-only."

    OBJECT       intSrvFlowBurst
      MIN-ACCESS read-only
      DESCRIPTION
       "read-create access is not required.  This  may  be
       read-only."

    OBJECT       intSrvFlowWeight
      MIN-ACCESS read-only
      DESCRIPTION
       "read-create access is not required.  This  may  be
       read-only."

    OBJECT       intSrvFlowQueue
      MIN-ACCESS read-only
      DESCRIPTION
       "read-create access is not required.  This  may  be
       read-only."





Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 24]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


    OBJECT       intSrvFlowMinTU
      MIN-ACCESS read-only
      DESCRIPTION
       "read-create access is not required.  This  may  be
       read-only."

    OBJECT       intSrvFlowDontAsk
      MIN-ACCESS read-only
      DESCRIPTION
       "read-create access is not required.  This  may  be
       read-only."

    OBJECT       intSrvFlowStatus
      MIN-ACCESS read-only
      DESCRIPTION
       "read-create access is not required.  This  may  be
       read-only."

    ::= { intSrvCompliances 1 }


    intSrvIfAttribGroup OBJECT-GROUP
         OBJECTS {
            intSrvIfAttribAllocatedBits, intSrvIfAttribMaxAllocatedBits,
            intSrvIfAttribAllocatedBuffer, intSrvIfAttribFlows,
            intSrvIfAttribPropagationDelay, intSrvIfAttribStatus
        }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
           "These objects are required  for  Systems  sup-
           porting the Integrated Services Architecture."
       ::= { intSrvGroups 1 }


















Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 25]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


    intSrvFlowsGroup OBJECT-GROUP
         OBJECTS {
            intSrvFlowType, intSrvFlowOwner, intSrvFlowDestAddr,
            intSrvFlowSenderAddr, intSrvFlowDestAddrLength,
            intSrvFlowSenderAddrLength, intSrvFlowProtocol,
            intSrvFlowDestPort, intSrvFlowPort, intSrvFlowInterface,
            intSrvFlowDontAsk, intSrvFlowRate, intSrvFlowBurst,
            intSrvFlowWeight, intSrvFlowQueue, intSrvFlowMinTU,
            intSrvFlowDiscard, intSrvFlowPoliced, intSrvFlowService,
            intSrvFlowIfAddr, intSrvFlowOrder, intSrvFlowStatus
        }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
           "These objects are required  for  Systems  sup-
           porting the Integrated Services Architecture."
       ::= { intSrvGroups 2 }

END
































Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 26]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


6.  Security Issues

Security issues for this MIB are entirely covered by the SNMP
Security Architecture, and have not been expanded within the
contents of this MIB.

7.  Authors' Addresses

         Fred Baker
 Postal: Cisco Systems
         519 Lado Drive
         Santa Barbara, California 93111
 Tel:    +1 805 681 0115
 E-Mail: fred@cisco.com

         John Krawczyk
 Postal: Bay Networks, Inc
         2 Federal Street
         Billerica, Massachusetts 01821
 Tel:    +1 508 436 3811
 E-Mail: jj@BayNetworks.com


8.  Acknowledgements

This document was produced by the Integrated Services Working
Group.























Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 27]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


9.  References

[1]  M.T. Rose (editor), Management Information Base for
     Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets, Internet
     Working Group Request for Comments 1213.  Network
     Information Center, SRI International, Menlo Park,
     California, (May, 1990).

[2]  Information processing systems - Open Systems
     Interconnection - Specification of Abstract Syntax
     Notation One (ASN.1), International Organization for
     Standardization.  International Standard 8824, (December,
     1987).

[3]  Information processing systems - Open Systems
     Interconnection - Specification of Basic Encoding Rules
     for Abstract Notation One (ASN.1), International
     Organization for Standardization.  International Standard
     8825, (December, 1987).































Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 28]




Internet Draft     Integrated Services MIB        January 1997


Table of Contents


1 Status of this Memo ...................................    1
2 Abstract ..............................................    2
3 The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework ...............    3
3.1 Object Definitions ..................................    3
4 Overview ..............................................    3
4.1 Textual Conventions .................................    3
4.2 Structure of MIB ....................................    4
5 Definitions ...........................................    5
5.2 Interface Attributes Database .......................    8
5.3 Integrated Services Interface Flows Database ........   11
6 Security Issues .......................................   27
7 Authors' Addresses ....................................   27
8 Acknowledgements ......................................   27
9 References ............................................   28

































Baker and Krawczyk    Expires July 1997              [Page 29]
