Network Working Group                                        M. Chaitou 
Internet Draft                                             J.L. Le Roux  
Intended status: Standard Track                          France Telecom  
Expires: August 2008                                           Zafar Ali 
                                                          Cisco Systems 
                                                      February 18, 2008 
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                    
 
                                      
     Path Computation Element communication Protocol (PCEP) Extensions 
            for Point to Multipoint Label Switched Paths (LSPs) 


                                      
                     draft-chaitou-pce-p2mp-ext-00.txt 


Status of this Memo 

   By submitting this Internet-Draft, each author represents that       
   any applicable patent or other IPR claims of which he or she is       
   aware have been or will be disclosed, and any of which he or she       
   becomes aware will be disclosed, in accordance with Section 6 of       
   BCP 79. 

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering 
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that 
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts. 

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months 
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any 
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference 
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress." 

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at 
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt 

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at 
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html 

   This Internet-Draft will expire on August 18, 2008. 

Copyright Notice 

   Copyright (C) The IETF Trust (2008). 
 
 
 
Chaitou, Le Roux, Ali  Expires August 18, 2008                 [Page 1] 

Internet-Draft        draft-chaitou-pce-p2mp-ext-00       February 2008 
    

 

Abstract 

The Path Computation Element communication Protocol (PCEP) enables 
computing point-to-point Traffic Engineered (TE) paths in Multi Protocol 
Label Switching (MPLS) and Generalized MPLS (GMPLS) networks.  
This document describes extensions to PCEP in order to support the 
computation of point-to-multipoint (P2MP) Traffic Engineered (TE) paths.  
 
Conventions used in this document 

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", 
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this 
document are to be interpreted as described in RFC-2119. 

Table of Contents 

    
   1. Terminology....................................................3 
   2. Introduction...................................................3 
   3. PCEP extensions................................................4 
      3.1. PCReq message format......................................4 
      3.2. PCRep message format......................................5 
      3.3. New SVEC object flag......................................5 
         3.3.1. Elements of procedure................................6 
      3.4. Objective functions.......................................6 
      3.5. New metric object types...................................7 
      3.6. P2MP TE path re-optimization request......................7 
         3.6.1. The Non-Modifiable Path flag.........................7 
      3.7. Adding/pruning leaves.....................................8 
      3.8. Branch nodes..............................................8 
      3.9. Route compression indication..............................8 
      3.10. Synchronization of P2MP TE path computation requests.....8 
   4. Security considerations........................................8 
   5. IANA considerations............................................9 
   6. References.....................................................9 
   7. Author's Addresses:...........................................10 
   8. Intellectual Property Statement...............................10 
    
    

    

    

    
 
 
Chaitou, Le Roux, Ali  Expires August 18, 2008                 [Page 2] 

Internet-Draft        draft-chaitou-pce-p2mp-ext-00       February 2008 
    

    

1. Terminology 

   Terminology used in this document 
    
   TE LSP: Traffic Engineered Label Switched Path. 
    
   LSR: Label Switch Router. 
    
   OF: Objective Function: A set of one or more optimization criterion 
   (criteria) used for the computation of a single path (e.g. path cost 
   minimization), or the synchronized computation of a set of paths 
   (e.g. aggregate bandwidth consumption minimization, etc.). 

   PCC: Path Computation Client: Any client application requesting a 
   path computation to be performed by a Path Computation Element. 

   PCE: Path Computation Element: An entity (component, application, or 
   network node) that is capable of computing a network path or route 
   based on a network graph, and applying computational constraints. 

   PCEP: Path Computation Element communication Protocol. 

   P2MP: Point-to-MultiPoint. 

   P2P: Point-to-Point. 

2. Introduction 

The Path Computation Element defined in [RFC4655] is an entity capable 
of computing TE LSP paths based on a network graph, and applying 
computational constraints. A PCE serves path computation requests sent 
by Path Computation Clients (PCC).  
 
The PCE communication Protocol (PCEP), defined in [PCEP], allows for 
communication between a PCC and a PCE or between two PCEs, in compliance 
with requirements and guidelines set forth in [RFC4657]. Such 
interactions include path computation requests and path computation 
replies.  
 
At present, PCEP supports P2P TE path computations. As mentioned in 
[PCE-P2MP-REQ], it may be useful to rely on one or more PCE for the 
computation of P2MP paths, for the same reasons as for P2P path, that is 
to handle complex P2MP computations as well as to support inter domain 
P2MP computation.  
  
 
 
Chaitou, Le Roux, Ali  Expires August 18, 2008                 [Page 3] 

Internet-Draft        draft-chaitou-pce-p2mp-ext-00       February 2008 
    

To address the above mentioned requirement of P2MP path computation in 
[P2MP-PCE-REQ], this document defines extensions to PCEP [PCEP]. 
Specifically, the format of PCReq and PCRep messages is extended to 
support P2MP path computation requests and replies. 
 
Two new objective functions are defined for trees, namely SPT (Shortest 
Path Tree) and MCT (Minimum Cost Tree), which define the optimization 
criteria that may apply when computing a tree. Also three new metric 
types are defined in order to indicate the cost of a tree. 
 
3. PCEP extensions 

This section defines extensions to PCEP ([PCEP]) so as to support the 
communication of P2MP path computation requests and replies. 

In order to minimize extensions to PCEP and maximize backward 
compatibility, a P2MP request is represented as a synchronized set of 
P2P path requests from the root to each leaf following synchronization 
procedures defined in [PCEP]. For that purpose a new synchronization 
flag, the P2MP flag is defined.  

In order to request the computation of a P2MP path towards a set of 
leaves the PCC will issue one or more PCReq message including a set of 
P2P path requests towards each leaf synchronized using the SVEC object, 
with a new flag indicating P2MP synchronization. 

3.1. PCReq message format 

A request for a P2MP path computation is built as a synchronized set of 
P2P path request from the root to each leaf. The TE constraints and 
objective function MUST directly follow the SVEC object, and MUST NOT 
repeated for each elementary request.  

The PCReq message for a particular P2MP path computation request has the 
following format: 

   <PCReq Message>::= <Common Header> 
                       <SVEC>  
                       [<BANDWIDTH>]  
                       [<LSPA>]  
                       [OF] 
                       [<metric-list>] 
                       [<LOAD-BALANCING>] 
                       <request-list> 
      where: 
            <request-list>::=<request>[<request-list>] 
            <request>::= <RP> 
 
 
Chaitou, Le Roux, Ali  Expires August 18, 2008                 [Page 4] 

Internet-Draft        draft-chaitou-pce-p2mp-ext-00       February 2008 
    

                         <END-POINTS> 
                         [<RRO>] 
                      [<IRO>] 
                      [<metric-list>] 
      where: 
      <metric-list>::=<METRIC>[<metric-list>] 
   Note that a P2MP request may be divided into multiple PCReq messages 
   following synchronization procedures defined in [PCEP]. 

3.2. PCRep message format 

   A PCRep message for a P2MP path is comprised of a set of synchronized 
   P2P replies including the P2P path towards each leaf. 
   The format of the PCRep message for a P2MP request is as follows: 
    
   <PCRep Message> ::= <Common Header> 
                       <SVEC> 
                       [<BANDWIDTH>]  
                       [<LSPA>]  
                       [OF] 
                       [<metric-list>] 
                       [<LOAD-BALANCING>] 
                       <response-list> 
    
         where: 
 
            <response-list>::=<response>[<response-list>] 
             
            <response>::=<RP> 
                        [<NO-PATH>] 
                        [<path-list>] 
    
            <path-list>::=<path>[<path-list>] 
    
            <path>::= <ERO> 
                     [<metric-list>] 
                     [<IRO>] 
    
       where: 
            <metric-list>::=<METRIC>[<metric-list> 
    
3.3. New SVEC object flag 

A new bit flag, referred to as the P2MP flag, is defined in the SVEC 
object, so as to indicate within a PCReq message a request for a P2MP 
path computation and within a PCRep message to indicate a reply for a 
P2MP computation request. 
 
 
Chaitou, Le Roux, Ali  Expires August 18, 2008                 [Page 5] 

Internet-Draft        draft-chaitou-pce-p2mp-ext-00       February 2008 
    

Note that the ability of a PCE to support P2MP TE path computation 
requests may be dynamically discovered by the PCC(s) by means of PCE 
capability discovery protocols [RFC5088], [RFC5089].  

3.3.1. Elements of procedure 

On receipt of a PCReq message with the P2MP flag in the SVEC object set, 
the PCE has to proceed as follows: 

   o  If the PCE understands  the P2MP flag and supports computing P2MP 
      paths, then the PCE starts P2MP path computation. 

   o  If the PCE understands the P2MP flag but does not support the 
      computation of P2MP paths, it must send a PCErr message with a new 
      error type "P2MP path computation not supported" (defined in this 
      document). 

   o  If the PCE does not understand the P2MP flag then the PCE MUST 
      send a PCErr message with a new error type "Unknown SVEC flag" 
      (defined in this document). 

    

3.4. Objective functions 

Six objective functions have been defined in [PCE-OF] for P2P path 
computation.  

This document defines two additional objective functions, namely SPT 
(Shortest Path Tree) and MCT (Minimum Cost Tree) that apply to P2MP path 
computation. Hence two new objective function codes have to be defined.  

The description of the two new objective functions is as follows. 

   Objective Function Code: 7 (suggested value, to be assigned by IANA) 

   Name: Shortest Path Tree (SPT) 

   Description: Minimize the maximum source-to-leaf cost with respect to 
   a specific  metric (e.g. TE or IGP metric) 

   Objective Function Code: 8 (suggested value, to be assigned by IANA) 

   Name: Minimum Cost Tree (MCT) 

   Description: Minimize the total cost of the tree, that is the sum of 
   the costs of tree links, with respect to a specific metric. 
 
 
Chaitou, Le Roux, Ali  Expires August 18, 2008                 [Page 6] 

Internet-Draft        draft-chaitou-pce-p2mp-ext-00       February 2008 
    

Processing these two new objective functions is subject to the rules 
defined in [PCE-OF]. 

3.5. New metric object types 

There are three types defined for the <METRIC> object in [PCEP], namely, 
the IGP metric, the TE metric and the hop count metric. This document 
defines three other types for the <METRIC> object: the P2MP IGP metric, 
the P2MP TE metric, and the P2MP Hop Count metric. They encode the sum 
of the metrics of all links of the tree. We propose the following values 
for these new metric types (to be assigned by IANA): 

   o  P2MP IGP metric: T=4 

   o  P2MP TE metric: T=5 

   o  P2MP hop count metric: T=6 

These three new metric objects MUST follow the SVEC object in a PCReq or 
PCRep message and MUST not appear for each elementary P2P request (i.e. 
they MUST not appear after a RP object). 

3.6. P2MP TE path re-optimization request 

A request for the re-optimization of a P2MP path is issued with a PCReq 
message including all the P2P path requests towards each leaf with the R 
bit set in the <RP> objects and the old P2P paths carried within the 
<RROs>.  

As indicated in [PCE-P2MP-REQ] it must be possible to indicate in a 
request whether a P2P path towards a leaf can be modified or not and in 
a response whether a P2P path has been modified or not. For that purpose 
we introduce a new flag within the <RP> object. 

3.6.1. The Non-Modifiable Path flag 

A new flag of the <RP> object (specified in [PCEP]) is defined in this 
document. The IANA is requested to make the following allocation 
(suggested value): 

      Bit       Hex            Name                   Reference 

      Number 

      14       0x02000      NP (Non-modifiable Path)  (this document) 


 
 
Chaitou, Le Roux, Ali  Expires August 18, 2008                 [Page 7] 

Internet-Draft        draft-chaitou-pce-p2mp-ext-00       February 2008 
    

When cleared within a PCReq message this indicates that the P2P path can 
be modified and when cleared within a PCRep message this indicates that 
the P2P path has been modified. When set in a PCReq message this 
indicates that the P2P path cannot be modified, and when set within a 
PCRep message this indicates that the P2P path has not been modified. 
The flag is meaningful only if the R flag is set. 

3.7. Adding/pruning leaves 

To request the modification of an existing P2MP tree that includes new 
leaves, the request message MUST include the set of new P2P path 
requests with the R flag cleared in the <RP> objects as well as all the 
existing P2P path requests with the R flag set in the <RP> objects with 
the corresponding <RROs>. 

If an existing P2P path must not be changed the NP bit MUST be set in 
the corresponding <RP> object.  

To request the modification of a P2MP tree that looses some leaves the 
PCReq message MUST include only the set of P2P path requests 
corresponding to the remaining leaves.  

3.8. Branch nodes  

Before computing the P2MP path, a PCE must be provided means to know 
which nodes in the network are capable of acting as branch LSRs. A PCE 
can discover such capability by using the mechanisms defined in [NODE-
CAP]. 

3.9. Route compression indication 

To be completed. 

3.10. Synchronization of P2MP TE path computation requests 

It is possible to synchronize the computation of n, n>=2, P2MP path 
requests by including in a PCReq messages (n+1) <SVEC> objects. Each of 
the first n <SVEC> objects contains the request-id-numbers that 
represent all the P2P paths that constitute one P2MP TE LSP. The last 
<SVEC> object contains n request-id-numbers where each request-id-number 
represents a P2P request belonging to a different P2MP path, following 
procedures for hierarchical synchronization defined in [PCE-SVEC-LIST].   

4. Security considerations 

 
To be completed. 
 
 
Chaitou, Le Roux, Ali  Expires August 18, 2008                 [Page 8] 

Internet-Draft        draft-chaitou-pce-p2mp-ext-00       February 2008 
    

    

5. IANA considerations 

To be completed.  

6. References 

[RFC4461] Yasukawa, S., "Signaling Requirements for Point-to-Multipoint 
Traffic-Engineered MPLS Label Switched Paths (LSPs)", RFC 4461, April 
2006. 

[RFC4655] Farrel, A., Vasseur, J.-P., " A Path Computation Element 
(PCE)-Based Architecture", RFC 4655, August 2006. 

[RFC4657] Ash, J., Le Roux, J.L.," Path Computation Element (PCE) 
Communication Protocol Generic Requirements", RFC 4657, September 2006. 

[RFC4875]  Aggarwal, R., Papadimitriou, D., Yasukawa, S. "Extensions to 
Resource Reservation Protocol - Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) for Point-
to-Multipoint TE Label Switched Paths (LSPs)", RFC 4875, May 2007. 

[NODE-CAP] Vasseur, J.-P., Le Roux, J.L., "IGP Routing Protocol 
Extensions for Discovery of Traffic Engineering Node Capabilities", RFC 
5073, December 2007 

[RFC5088] Le Roux, J.L., Vasseur, J.-P., Ikejiri, Y., Zhang, R., "OSPF 
Protocol Extensions for Path Computation Element (PCE) Discovery", RFC 
5088, January 2008.  

[RFC5089] Le Roux, J.L., Vasseur, J.-P., Ikejiri, Y., Zhang, R., "IS-IS 
Protocol Extensions for Path Computation Element (PCE) Discovery", RFC 
5089, January 2008.      

[PCEP] Vasseur, J.-P., Le Roux, J.L., "Path Computation Element (PCE) 
communication Protocol (PCEP)", draft-ietf-pce-pcep, work in progress. 

[PCE-P2MP-REQ] Yasukawa, S., "PCC-PCE Communication Requirements for 
Point to Multipoint Multiprotocol Label Switching Traffic Engineering 
(MPLS-TE)", draft-yasukawa-pce-p2mp-req, work in progress. 

[PCE-OF] Le Roux, J.L., Vasseur, J.-P., Lee, Y. "Encoding of Objective 
Functions in Path Computation Element (PCE) communication and discovery 
protocols", draft-ietf-pce-of, work in progress. 



 
 
Chaitou, Le Roux, Ali  Expires August 18, 2008                 [Page 9] 

Internet-Draft        draft-chaitou-pce-p2mp-ext-00       February 2008 
    

[PCE-SVEC-LIST] Nishioka, I., King, D., "The use of SVEC 
(Synchronization VECtor) list for Synchronized dependent path 
computations", draft-nishioka-pce-svec-list, work in progress. 

 

7. Author's Addresses:  

   Mohamad Chaitou 
   France Telecom 
   2, avenue Pierre-Marzin 
   22307 Lannion Cedex 
   France 
   Email: Mohamad.Chaitou@orange-ftgroup.com 
    
   Jean-Louis Le Roux 
   France Telecom  
   2, avenue Pierre-Marzin  
   22307 Lannion Cedex  
   France 
   Email: Jeanlouis.Leroux@orange-ftgroup.com 
    
   Zafar Ali 
   Cisco systems, Inc., 
   2000 Innovation Drive 
   Kanata, Ontario               
   Canada K2K 3E8 
   Phone: 613 254 3498 
   Email: zali@cisco.com 
    
 
8. Intellectual Property Statement 

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any 
Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed to 
pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in 
this document or the extent to which any license under such rights 
might or might not be available; nor does it represent that it has 
made any independent effort to identify any such rights.  Information 
on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC documents can be 
found in BCP 78 and BCP 79. 
 
Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any 
assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an 
attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of 
such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this 
specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository at 
 
 
Chaitou, Le Roux, Ali  Expires August 18, 2008                [Page 10] 

Internet-Draft        draft-chaitou-pce-p2mp-ext-00       February 2008 
    

http://www.ietf.org/ipr. 
 
The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any 
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights 
that may cover technology that may be required to implement 
this standard.  Please address the information to the IETF at  
ietf-ipr@ietf.org. 
 
Disclaimer of Validity 
 
This document and the information contained herein are provided 
on an "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE 
REPRESENTS OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY, THE  
IETF TRUST AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL 
WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY 
WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE 
ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS 
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 
 
Copyright Statement 
 
Copyright (C) The IETF Trust (2007). This document is subject to the 
rights, licenses and restrictions contained in BCP 78, and except as set 
forth therein, the authors retain all their rights. 























 
 
Chaitou, Le Roux, Ali  Expires August 18, 2008                [Page 11] 

