



Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


       Management Information Base for Frame Relay DTEs
              draft-ietf-iplpdn-frmib-dte-03.txt

                 Mon Jan  9 21:55:58 PST 1995


                        Caralyn Brown

                Wellfleet Communications, Inc.
                       2 Federal Street
               Billerica, Massachusetts  01821

                     cbrown@wellfleet.com


                       Charles Carvalho

               Advanced Computer Communications
                   720 Santa Barbara Street
               Santa Barbara, California  93101

                       charles@acc.com


                          Fred Baker

                        Cisco Systems
                        519 Lado Drive
               Santa Barbara, California 93111

                        fred@cisco.com






1.  Status of this Memo

This draft document will be submitted to the RFC editor as an
extension to the SNMP MIB.  Please send comments to the
authors, copying iplpdn@cnri.reston.va.us.  It expires August
1995.







Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                            [Page 1]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


2.  Abstract

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base
(MIB) for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-
based internets.  In particular, it defines objects for
managing Frame Relay.

This memo does not specify a standard for the Internet
community.


3.  The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework

The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework consists of four major
components.  They are:

o    RFC 1441 which defines the SMI, the mechanisms used for
     describing and naming objects for the purpose of
     management.

o    RFC 1213 defines MIB-II, the core set of managed objects
     for the Internet suite of protocols.

o    RFC 1445 which defines the administrative and other
     architectural aspects of the framework.

o    RFC 1448 which defines the protocol used for network
     access to managed objects.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the
purpose of experimentation and evaluation.


3.1.  Object Definitions

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store,
termed the Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the
MIB are defined using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation
One (ASN.1) defined in the SMI.  In particular, each object
object type is named by an OBJECT IDENTIFIER, an
administratively assigned name.  The object type together with
an object instance serves to uniquely identify a specific
instantiation of the object.  For human convenience, we often
use a textual string, termed the descriptor, to refer to the
object type.





Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                            [Page 2]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


4.  Overview

4.1.  Frame Relay Operational Model

For the purposes of understanding this document, Frame Relay
is viewed as a multi-access media, not as a group of point-
to-point connections.  This model proposes that Frame Relay is
a single interface to the network (physical connection) with
many destinations or neighbors (virtual connections).  This
view enables a network manager the ability to group all
virtual connections with their corresponding physical
connection thereby allowing simpler diagnostics and trouble
shooting.

4.2.  Textual Conventions

Several new data types are introduced as a textual convention
in this MIB document.  These textual conventions enhance the
readability of the specification and can ease comparison with
other specifications if appropriate.  It should be noted that
the introduction of the these textual conventions has no
effect on either the syntax nor the semantics of any managed
objects.  The use of these is merely an artifact of the
explanatory method used.  Objects defined in terms of one of
these methods are always encoded by means of the rules that
define the primitive type.  Hence, no changes to the SMI or
the SNMP are necessary to accommodate these textual
conventions which are adopted merely for the convenience of
readers and writers in pursuit of the elusive goal of clear,
concise, and unambiguous MIB documents.

The new data types are Index and DLCI.  Index refers to the
range 1..ifNumber, and is used to establish the correspondence
between ifEntries and Frame Relay Interfaces.  DLCI refers to
the range 0..DLCINumber, and is used to refer to the valid
Data Link Connection Indices.  DLCINumber is, by definition,
the largest possible DLCI value possible under the configured
Q.922 Address Format.

4.3.  Structure of MIB

The MIB is composed of three groups, one defining the Data
Link Connection Management Interface (DLCMI), one describing
the Circuits, and a third describing errors.






Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                            [Page 3]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


During normal operation, Frame Relay virtual circuits will be
added, deleted and change availability.  The occurrence of
such changes is of interest to the network manager and
therefore, one trap is defined, intended to be corollary to
the SNMP "Link Up" and "Link Down" traps.













































Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                            [Page 4]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


5.  Definitions

RFCxxxx-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
            MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, Counter32,
            Integer32, TimeTicks, NOTIFICATION-TYPE  FROM SNMPv2-SMI
            TEXTUAL-CONVENTION, RowStatus            FROM SNMPv2-TC
            MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP          FROM SNMPv2-CONF
            transmission                             FROM RFC1213-MIB;

    --  Frame Relay DTE MIB

    frameRelay MODULE-IDENTITY
        LAST-UPDATED "9501092155Z" -- Mon Jan  9 21:55:58 PST 1995
        ORGANIZATION "IETF IPLPDN Working Group"
        CONTACT-INFO
           "       Caralyn Brown
           Postal: Wellfleet Communications, Inc.
                   2 Federal Street
                   Billerica, Massachusetts  01821
           Tel:
           E-Mail: cbrown@wellfleet.com

                   Fred Baker
           Postal: Cisco Systems
                   519 Lado Drive
                   Santa Barbara, California 93111
           Tel:    +1 805 681 0115
           E-Mail: fred@cisco.com

                   Charles Carvallho
           Postal: Advanced Computer Communications
                   315 Bollay Drive
                   Santa Barbara, California 93117
           Tel:    +1 805 685 4455
           E-Mail: charles@acc.com"
       DESCRIPTION
          "The MIB module to describe the ose of  a  Frame
          Relay interface by a DTE."
      ::= { transmission 32 }









Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                            [Page 5]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


    --
    --      the range of ifIndex
    --
    Index ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The range of ifIndex."
       SYNTAX      Integer32       -- 1..ifNumber


    --
    --      the range of a Data Link Connection Identifier
    --
    DLCI ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The range of  DLCI  values.   Note  that  this
           varies  by  interface  configuration; normally,
           interfaces may use 0..1023, but may be  config-
           ured to use ranges as large as 0..2^23."
       SYNTAX      Integer32        -- 0..DLCINumber





























Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                            [Page 6]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


--  Data Link Connection Management Interface

--      The variables that configure the DLC Management Interface.

frDlcmiTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX   SEQUENCE OF FrDlcmiEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS   current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Parameters for the Data Link Connection Management
       Interface for the frame relay service on this
       interface."
    REFERENCE
       "Draft American National Standard T1.617-1991, Annex D"
    ::= { frameRelay 1 }

    frDlcmiEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   FrDlcmiEntry
        MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Parameters for a particular Data Link Con-
           nection Management Interface."
       INDEX { frDlcmiIfIndex }
       ::= { frDlcmiTable 1 }

























Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                            [Page 7]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


    FrDlcmiEntry ::=
        SEQUENCE {
            frDlcmiIfIndex
                Index,
            frDlcmiState
                INTEGER,
            frDlcmiStatus
                INTEGER,
            frDlcmiAddress
                INTEGER,
            frDlcmiAddressLen
                INTEGER,
            frDlcmiPollingInterval
                INTEGER,
            frDlcmiFullEnquiryInterval
                INTEGER,
            frDlcmiErrorThreshold
                INTEGER,
            frDlcmiMonitoredEvents
                INTEGER,
            frDlcmiMaxSupportedVCs
                Integer32,
            frDlcmiMulticast
                INTEGER,
            frDlcmiRowStatus
                RowStatus
    }


    frDlcmiIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Index
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The ifIndex value of the  corresponding  ifEn-
           try."
       ::= { frDlcmiEntry 1 }













Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                            [Page 8]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


    frDlcmiState OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER      {
            noLmiConfigured (1),
            lmiRev1         (2),
            ansiT1_617_D    (3),  -- ANSI T1.617 Annex D
            ansiT1_617_B    (4),  -- ANSI T1.617 Annex B
            ccitt_933_A     (5)   -- CCITT Q933 Annex A
        }
        MAX-ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This variable states which Data  Link  Connec-
           tion Management scheme is active (and by impli-
           cation, what DLCI it uses) on the  Frame  Relay
           interface."
       REFERENCE
          "Draft American National Standard T1.617-1991"
      ::= { frDlcmiEntry 2 }


    frDlcmiStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   INTEGER    {
                    running      (1),    -- init complete, system running
                    fault        (2),    -- error threshold exceeded
                    initializing (3)     -- system start up
                    }
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This indicates the status of the  Frame  Relay
           interface  as  determined by the performance of
           the dlcmi.  If no dlcmi is running,  the  Frame
           Relay  interface will stay in the running state
           indefinately.  "
       ::= { frDlcmiEntry 3 }















Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                            [Page 9]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


    frDlcmiAddress OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                    q921           (1),  -- 13 bit DLCI
                    q922March90    (2),  -- 11 bit DLCI
                    q922November90 (3),  -- 10 bit DLCI
                    q922           (4)   -- Final Standard
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This variable states which address  format  is
           in use on the Frame Relay interface."
       ::= { frDlcmiEntry 4 }


    frDlcmiAddressLen OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX  INTEGER     {
                twoOctets (2),
                threeOctets (3),
                fourOctets (4)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This variable states which address  length  in
           octets.  In the case of Q922 format, the length
           indicates the entire length of the address  in-
           cluding the control portion."
       ::= { frDlcmiEntry 5 }


    frDlcmiPollingInterval OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   INTEGER (5..30)
        MAX-ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This is the number of seconds between  succes-
           sive status enquiry messages."
       REFERENCE
          "Draft American National  Standard  T1.617-1991,
          Section D.7 Timer T391."
      DEFVAL { 10 }
      ::= { frDlcmiEntry 6 }







Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 10]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


    frDlcmiFullEnquiryInterval OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   INTEGER (1..255)
        MAX-ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Number of status enquiry intervals  that  pass
           before  issuance  of a full status enquiry mes-
           sage."
       REFERENCE
          "Draft American National  Standard  T1.617-1991,
          Section D.7 Counter N391."
      DEFVAL { 6 }
      ::= { frDlcmiEntry 7 }



    frDlcmiErrorThreshold OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   INTEGER (1..10)
        MAX-ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This  is  the  maximum  number  of  unanswered
           Status Enquiries the equipment shall accept be-
           fore declaring the interface down."
       REFERENCE
          "Draft American National  Standard  T1.617-1991,
          Section D.5.1 Counter N392."
      DEFVAL { 3 }
      ::= { frDlcmiEntry 8 }





















Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 11]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


    frDlcmiMonitoredEvents OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   INTEGER (1..10)
        MAX-ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This is the number of status polling intervals
           over which the error threshold is counted.  For
           example, if within 'MonitoredEvents' number  of
           events  the  station  receives 'ErrorThreshold'
           number of errors, the interface  is  marked  as
           down."
       REFERENCE
          "Draft American National  Standard  T1.617-1991,
          Section D.5.2 Counter N393."
      DEFVAL { 4 }
      ::= { frDlcmiEntry 9 }


    frDlcmiMaxSupportedVCs OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Integer32
        MAX-ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The maximum number of Virtual Circuits allowed
           for  this  interface.   Usually dictated by the
           Frame Relay network.

           In response to a SET, if a value less than zero
           or  higher  than the agent's maximal capability
           is configured, the agent  should  respond  bad-
           Value"
       ::= { frDlcmiEntry 10 }


















Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 12]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


    frDlcmiMulticast OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   INTEGER    {
                    nonBroadcast (1),
                    broadcast (2)
                    }
        MAX-ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This indicates whether the Frame Relay  inter-
           face is using a multicast service."
       ::= { frDlcmiEntry 11 }



    frDlcmiRowStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   RowStatus
        MAX-ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "SNMP Version 2 Row Status Variable."
       ::= { frDlcmiEntry 12 }





























Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 13]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


-- A Frame Relay service is a multiplexing service.  Data
-- Link Connection Identifiers enumerate virtual circuits
-- (permanent or dynamic) which are layered onto the underlying
-- circuit, represented by ifEntry.  Therefore, each of the entries
-- in the Standard MIB's Interface Table with an IfType of
-- Frame Relay represents a Q.922 interface.  Zero or more
-- virtual circuits are layered onto this interface and provide
-- interconnection with various remote destinations.
-- Each such virtual circuit is represented by an entry in the
-- circuit table.

--   Circuit Table

-- The table describing the use of the DLCIs attached to
-- each Frame Relay Interface.

frCircuitTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX   SEQUENCE OF FrCircuitEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS   current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A table containing information about specific Data
       Link Connection Identifiers and corresponding virtual
       circuits."
    ::= { frameRelay 2 }

    frCircuitEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   FrCircuitEntry
        MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The information regarding a single  Data  Link
           Connection Identifier."
       INDEX { frCircuitIfIndex, frCircuitDlci }
       ::= { frCircuitTable 1 }















Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 14]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


    FrCircuitEntry ::=
        SEQUENCE {
            frCircuitIfIndex
                Index,
            frCircuitDlci
                DLCI,
            frCircuitState
                INTEGER,
            frCircuitReceivedFECNs
                Counter32,
            frCircuitReceivedBECNs
                Counter32,
            frCircuitSentFrames
                Counter32,
            frCircuitSentOctets
                Counter32,
            frCircuitReceivedFrames
                Counter32,
            frCircuitReceivedOctets
                Counter32,
            frCircuitCreationTime
                TimeTicks,
            frCircuitLastTimeChange
                TimeTicks,
            frCircuitCommittedBurst
                Integer32,
            frCircuitExcessBurst
                Integer32,
            frCircuitThroughput
                Integer32,
            frCircuitMulticast
                INTEGER,
            frCircuitType
                INTEGER,
            frCircuitDiscards
                Counter32,
            frCircuitRowStatus
                RowStatus
    }











Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 15]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


    frCircuitIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Index
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The ifIndex Value of the ifEntry this  virtual
           circuit is layered onto."
       ::= { frCircuitEntry 1 }


    frCircuitDlci OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   DLCI
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Data Link Connection Identifier  for  this
           virtual circuit."
       REFERENCE
          "Draft American National  Standard  T1.618-1991,
          Section 3.3.6"
      ::= { frCircuitEntry 2 }





























Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 16]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


    frCircuitState OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   INTEGER    {
                    invalid (1),
                    active (2),
                    inactive (3)
                 }
        MAX-ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Indicates whether the particular virtual  cir-
           cuit  is operational.  In the absence of a Data
           Link Connection Management  Interface,  virtual
           circuit  entries  (rows) may be created by set-
           ting virtual  circuit  state  to  'active',  or
           deleted by changing Circuit state to 'invalid'.

           Whether or not the row actually  disappears  is
           left  to the implementation, so this object may
           actually read as 'invalid' for  some  arbitrary
           length  of  time.   It is also legal to set the
           state of a virtual  circuit  to  'inactive'  to
           temporarily disable a given circuit.

           The use of 'invalid' is deprecated in this SNMP
           Version 2 MIB, in favor of frCircuitRowStatus."
       DEFVAL { active }
       ::= { frCircuitEntry 3 }


    frCircuitReceivedFECNs OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Counter32
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Number of frames received from the network in-
           dicating  forward  congestion since the virtual
           circuit was created."
       REFERENCE
          "Draft American National  Standard  T1.618-1991,
          Section 3.3.3"
      ::= { frCircuitEntry 4 }









Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 17]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


    frCircuitReceivedBECNs OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Counter32
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Number of frames received from the network in-
           dicating  backward congestion since the virtual
           circuit was created."
       REFERENCE
          "Draft American National  Standard  T1.618-1991,
          Section 3.3.4"
      ::= { frCircuitEntry 5 }


    frCircuitSentFrames OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Counter32
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of frames sent  from  this  virtual
           circuit since it was created."
       ::= { frCircuitEntry 6 }


    frCircuitSentOctets OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Counter32
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of octets sent  from  this  virtual
           circuit since it was created."
       ::= { frCircuitEntry 7 }


    frCircuitReceivedFrames OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Counter32
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Number of frames received  over  this  virtual
           circuit since it was created."
       ::= { frCircuitEntry 8 }








Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 18]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


    frCircuitReceivedOctets OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Counter32
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Number of octets received  over  this  virtual
           circuit since it was created."
       ::= { frCircuitEntry 9 }


    frCircuitCreationTime OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   TimeTicks
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value of sysUpTime when the  virtual  cir-
           cuit was created, whether by the Data Link Con-
           nection Management Interface  or  by  a  SetRe-
           quest."
       ::= { frCircuitEntry 10 }


    frCircuitLastTimeChange OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   TimeTicks
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value of sysUpTime when last there  was  a
           change in the virtual circuit state"
       ::= { frCircuitEntry 11 }




















Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 19]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


    frCircuitCommittedBurst OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Integer32
        MAX-ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This variable indicates the maximum amount  of
           data,  in  bits,  that  the  network  agrees to
           transfer under normal  conditions,  during  the
           measurement interval."
       REFERENCE
          "Draft American National  Standard  T1.617-1991,
          Section 6.5.19"
      DEFVAL   { 0 }  -- the default indicates no commitment
      ::= { frCircuitEntry 12 }


    frCircuitExcessBurst OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Integer32
        MAX-ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This variable indicates the maximum amount  of
           uncommitted data bits that the network will at-
           tempt to deliver over the measurement interval.

           By default, if not configured when creating the
           entry, the Excess Information Burst Size is set
           to the value of ifSpeed."
       REFERENCE
          "Draft American National  Standard  T1.617-1991,
          Section 6.5.19"
              ::= { frCircuitEntry 13 }


















Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 20]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


    frCircuitThroughput OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Integer32
        MAX-ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Throughput is the average number of 'Frame Re-
           lay  Information  Field'  bits  transferred per
           second across a user network interface  in  one
           direction, measured over the measurement inter-
           val.

           If the  configured  committed  burst  rate  and
           throughput  are  both non-zero, the measurement
           interval
           T=frCircuitCommittedBurst/frCircuitThroughput.

           If the  configured  committed  burst  rate  and
           throughput  are  both zero, the measurement in-
           terval
                  T=frCircuitExcessBurst/ifSpeed."
       REFERENCE
          "Draft American National  Standard  T1.617-1991,
          Section 6.5.19"
      DEFVAL {0}  -- the default value of Throughput is
                  -- "no commitment".
      ::= { frCircuitEntry 14 }


    frCircuitMulticast OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   INTEGER    {
                    unicast   (1),
                    multicast (2)
                    }
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This indicates whether this VC is  used  as  a
           multicast VC or a single destination"
       ::= { frCircuitEntry 15 }











Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 21]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


    frCircuitType OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   INTEGER    {
                    static  (1),
                    dynamic (2)
                 }
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Indication of  whether  the  VC  was  manually
           created   (static),   or   dynamically  created
           (dynamic) via the data link  control  managment
           interface."
       ::= { frCircuitEntry 16 }


    frCircuitDiscards OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Counter32
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of inbound frames  dropped  because
           of  format  errors,  or because the VC is inac-
           tive."
       ::= { frCircuitEntry 17 }


    frCircuitRowStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   RowStatus
        MAX-ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The SNMP Status of the rwo, used in row  crea-
           tion."
       ::= { frCircuitEntry 18 }
















Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 22]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


--  Error Table

-- The table describing errors encountered on each Frame
-- Relay Interface.

frErrTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX   SEQUENCE OF FrErrEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS   current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A table containing information about Errors on the
       Frame Relay interface."
    ::= { frameRelay 3 }

    frErrEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   FrErrEntry
        MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The error information for a single frame relay
           interface."
       INDEX { frErrIfIndex }
       ::= { frErrTable 1 }


    FrErrEntry ::=
        SEQUENCE {
            frErrIfIndex
                Index,
            frErrType
                INTEGER,
            frErrData
                OCTET STRING,
            frErrTime
                TimeTicks,
            frErrDiscards
                Counter32,
            frErrFaults
                Counter32,
            frErrFaultTime
                TimeTicks
    }








Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 23]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


    frErrIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Index
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The ifIndex Value of the  corresponding  ifEn-
           try."
       ::= { frErrEntry 1 }


    frErrType OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   INTEGER    {
                    unknownError(1),
                    receiveShort(2),
                    receiveLong(3),
                    illegalDLCI(4),
                    dlcmiProtoErr(5),
                    dlcmiUnknownIE(6),
                    dlcmiSequenceErr(7),
                    dlcmiUnknownRpt(8),
                    noErrorSinceReset(9)
                 }
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The type of error that was last seen  on  this
           interface."
       ::= { frErrEntry 2 }


    frErrData OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..1600))
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "An octet string containing as much of the  er-
           ror  packet as possible.  As a minimum, it must
           contain the Q.922 Address or  as  much  as  was
           delivered.   It is desirable to include all in-
           formation up to the PDU."
       ::= { frErrEntry 3 }









Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 24]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


    frErrTime OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   TimeTicks
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value of sysUpTime at which the error  was
           detected."
       ::= { frErrEntry 4 }


    frErrDiscards OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Counter32
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of inbound frames  dropped  because
           of  format  errors  or  because  the VC was not
           known.  Format errors, in this  case,  are  any
           errors  which  would  prevent  the  system from
           recognizing the DLCI and placing the  error  in
           the frCircuitDiscard category. "
       ::= { frErrEntry 5 }


    frErrFaults OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Counter32
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of times  the  interface  has  gone
           down since it was initialized."
       ::= { frErrEntry 6 }


    frErrFaultTime OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   TimeTicks
        MAX-ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value of sysUpTime at the  time  when  the
           interface  was  taken down due to excessive er-
           rors."
       ::= { frErrEntry 7 }







Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 25]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


    -- Frame Relay Trap Control

    frameRelayTrapControl OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { frameRelay 4 }
    frameRelayTraps OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { frameRelay 5 }

    frTrapState OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX  INTEGER     { enabled(1), disabled(2) }
        MAX-ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This variable  indicates  whether  the  system
           produces the frDLCIStatusChange trap."
       DEFVAL { disabled }
       ::= { frameRelayTrapControl 1 }



    --  Data Link Connection Management Interface Related Traps

    frDLCIStatusChange NOTIFICATION-TYPE
        OBJECTS  { frCircuitState }
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This trap indicates that the indicated Virtual
           Circuit  has changed state.  It has either been
           created or invalidated, or has toggled  between
           the active and inactive states."
   ::= { frameRelayTraps 1 }

-- conformance information

frConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { frameRelay 6 }

frGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { frConformance 1 }
frCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { frConformance 2 }

-- compliance statements

frCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The compliance statement "
    MODULE  -- this module
    MANDATORY-GROUPS { frLmiGroup,
                       frCircuitGroup,





Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 26]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


                       frErrorGroup
                     }

    GROUP       frTrapGroup
    DESCRIPTION
       "This group is optional, and is used for the management
       of asynchronous notifications by Frame Relay Systems."
    ::= { frCompliances 1 }

-- units of conformance

frLmiGroup    OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
              frDlcmiIfIndex,
              frDlcmiState,
              frDlcmiStatus,
              frDlcmiAddress ,
              frDlcmiAddressLen,
              frDlcmiPollingInterval,
              frDlcmiFullEnquiryInterval,
              frDlcmiErrorThreshold,
              frDlcmiMonitoredEvents,
              frDlcmiMaxSupportedVCs,
              frDlcmiMulticast,
              frDlcmiRowStatus  }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The objects necessary to control the Link Management
       Interface for a Frame Relay Interface."
    ::= { frGroups 1 }

frCircuitGroup    OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
              frCircuitIfIndex,
              frCircuitDlci,
              frCircuitState,
              frCircuitReceivedFECNs,
              frCircuitReceivedBECNs,
              frCircuitSentFrames,
              frCircuitSentOctets,
              frCircuitReceivedFrames,
              frCircuitReceivedOctets,
              frCircuitCreationTime,
              frCircuitLastTimeChange,
              frCircuitCommittedBurst,





Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 27]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


              frCircuitExcessBurst,
              frCircuitThroughput,
              frCircuitMulticast,
              frCircuitType,
              frCircuitDiscards,
              frCircuitRowStatus
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The objects necessary to control the Virtual Circuits
       layered onto a Frame Relay Interface."
    ::= { frGroups 2 }

frErrorGroup    OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
                frErrIfIndex,
                frErrType,
                frErrData,
                frErrTime,
                frErrDiscards,
                frErrFaults,
                frErrFaultTime
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The objects necessary to display recent errors on a
       Frame Relay Interface."
    ::= { frGroups 3 }

frTrapGroup    OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { frTrapState }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The objects necessary to control a Frame Relay
       Interface's notification messages."
    ::= { frGroups 4 }
END













Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 28]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


6.  Acknowledgements

This document was produced by the IP Over Large Public Data
Networks (IPLPDN) Working Group.

The following people provided additional comments and
suggestions: Art Berggreen of Advanced Computer
Communications, and Jim Philippou of Xyplex Communications.










































Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 29]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


7.  References

[1]  V. Cerf, IAB Recommendations for the Development of
     Internet Network Management Standards.  Internet Working
     Group Request for Comments 1052.  Network Information
     Center, SRI International, Menlo Park, California, April
     1988.

[2]  V. Cerf, Report of the Second Ad Hoc Network Management
     Review Group, Internet Working Group Request for Comments
     1109.  Network Information Center, SRI International,
     Menlo Park, California, August 1989.

[3]  M.T. Rose and K. McCloghrie, Structure and Identification
     of Management Information for TCP/IP-based internets,
     Internet Working Group Request for Comments 1155.
     Network Information Center, SRI International, Menlo
     Park, California, May 1990.

[4]  K. McCloghrie and M.T. Rose, Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets,
     Internet Working Group Request for Comments 1156.
     Network Information Center, SRI International, Menlo
     Park, California, May 1990.

[5]  J.D. Case, M.S. Fedor, M.L. Schoffstall, and J.R. Davin,
     Simple Network Management Protocol, Internet Working
     Group Request for Comments 1157.  Network Information
     Center, SRI International, Menlo Park, California, May
     1990.

[6]  M.T. Rose, K.  McCloghrie (editors), "Management
     Information Base for Network Management of TCP/IP-based
     internets", RFC 1213, Performance Systems Internations,
     March 1991

[7]  Information processing systems - Open Systems
     Interconnection - Specification of Abstract Syntax
     Notation One (ASN.1), International Organization for
     Standardization.  International Standard 8824, December
     1987.

[8]  Information processing systems - Open Systems
     Interconnection - Specification of Basic Encoding Rules
     for Abstract Notation One (ASN.1), International





Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 30]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


     Organization for Standardization.  International Standard
     8825, December 1987.

[9]  M.T. Rose, K. McCloghrie (editors), "Concise MIB
     Definitions", RFC 1212, Performance Systems
     International, Hughes LAN Systems, March 1991

[10] M.T. Rose (editor), "Convention for Defining Traps for
     use with the SNMP", RFC 1215 Internet Engineering Task
     Force, March 1991.








































Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 31]




Draft                Frame Relay DTE MIB          January 1995


Table of Contents


1 Status of this Memo ...................................    1
2 Abstract ..............................................    2
3 The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework ...............    2
3.1 Object Definitions ..................................    2
4 Overview ..............................................    3
4.1 Frame Relay Operational Model .......................    3
4.2 Textual Conventions .................................    3
4.3 Structure of MIB ....................................    3
5 Definitions ...........................................    5
5.1 Data Link Connection Management Interface ...........    7
5.2 Circuit Table .......................................   14
5.3 Error Table .........................................   23
5.4 Trap Management .....................................   25
6 Acknowledgements ......................................   29
7 References ............................................   30
































Brown, Baker, and Carvalho                           [Page 32]
