 



INTERNET-DRAFT                                                 N. Elkins
Intended Status: Informational                           Inside Products
                                                            H. Chowdhary
                                                                    NIXI
                                                              T. Santosh
                                                                   MEITY
                                                                V. Hegde
                                                             Independent
Expires: January 4, 2018                                    July 3, 2017


                          Remote Viewing Hubs
                draft-elkins-ietf-remote-viewing-hubs-00

Abstract

For many reasons, remote participation in IETF meetings has increased.  
As the Internet grows, so does the participation by engineers worldwide.
Remote participation with more than one person is considered a hub.

Three types of remote hubs are defined.   Some exist today; other types
may exist in the future.   Each has its own characteristics.

   - Remote Participation Hubs (future)
   - Remote Viewing Hubs (today)
   - Enduring Local Meetups (today)

This document defines a Remote Viewing Hub (RVH).  Other documents
define the other types of hubs.  A common structure of sections will be
used as far as possible for all hub types.   

Status of this Memo

This Internet-Draft is submitted to IETF in full conformance with the
provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/1id-abstracts.html

 


Elkins                  Expires January 4, 2018                 [Page 1]

INTERNET DRAFT          draft-elkins-ietf-rvh-00            July 3, 2017


The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html

Copyright and License Notice

Copyright (c) 2017 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the document
authors. All rights reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions
Relating to IETF Documents (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in
effect on the date of publication of this document. Please review these
documents carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with
respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this document
must include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
described in the Simplified BSD License.
































 


Elkins                  Expires January 4, 2018                 [Page 2]

INTERNET DRAFT          draft-elkins-ietf-rvh-00            July 3, 2017


Table of Contents

   1  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
     1.1  Terminology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
   2  Purpose of Remote Viewing Hubs (RVH)  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
   3  Relationship to IETF Meetings . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
     3.1  Registration  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
     3.2  Cost  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
     3.3  Timing  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
   4   Functioning at Remote Viewing Hubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
     4.1 Coordinators . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
     4.2 Session Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
     4.3 Anti-Harassment Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
     4.4 Adherence to Proper Procedures . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
     4.5 Recording  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
     4.6 Technical Functioning  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
       4.6.1 Bandwidth  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
       4.6.2 Physical Room Layout . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
       4.6.3 Audio  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
     4.7 Responsibilities/Functions of the RVH Coordinators . . . . .  7
     4.8 Language of the communication of RVH . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
   5  Remote Support Tools  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
     5.1 Communications . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
   6 IETF Secretariat Support . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
     6.1 Calendar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
     6.2 Wiki / Web Page  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
     6.3 Registration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
   7 IETF Liaison . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
   8 Metrics  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
   9 Mentoring  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
   10  Legal Issues . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
     10.1 IETF Rights in Contributions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
     10.2 Note Well . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
     10.3 IETF Brand / Logo . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
   11  Security Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
   12 IANA Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
   13  References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
     13.1  Normative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
     13.2  Informative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
   Authors' Addresses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10








 


Elkins                  Expires January 4, 2018                 [Page 3]

INTERNET DRAFT          draft-elkins-ietf-rvh-00            July 3, 2017


1  Introduction

   For many reasons, remote participation in IETF meetings has
   increased.  As the Internet grows, so does the participation by
   engineers worldwide. Remote participation with more than one person
   is considered a hub.

   Three types of remote hubs are defined.   Some exist today; other
   types may exist in the future.   Each has its own characteristics.

      - Remote Participation Hubs (future)
      - Remote Viewing Hubs (today)
      - Enduring Local Meetups (today)

   This document defines a Remote Viewing Hub (RVH).  Other documents
   will define the other types of hubs.  A common structure of sections
   will be used as far as possible for all hub types.  A Remote Viewing
   Hub is most likely be used for outreach purposes.  If an attendee at
   a Remote Viewing Hub wishes to participate in a working group
   session, the attendee may do so as an individual remote participant. 
     A Remote Viewing Hub may evolve into an Enduring Local Meetup.

   A Remote Participation Hub (RPH) may be defined in the future.   
   This will have many more requirements for legal, queuing, recording
   and other restrictions. An Enduring Local Meetup is not necessarily
   at the same time as an IETF face-to-face meeting and may do
   activities at its own discretion.

1.1  Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 [RFC2119].

2  Purpose of Remote Viewing Hubs (RVH)

   The purpose of a Remote Viewing Hub (RVH) is to provide a gathering
   space to participate in one or more Working Groups sessions,
   Hackathons, or IETF Plenaries scheduled at an ongoing IETF meeting
   which is being held at the same time.   

   Participation in an RVH is not functionally equivalent to attendance
   at an IETF meeting.   The purpose of Viewing hubs may be to introduce
   people to the IETF process, discuss ongoing work at the IETF or
   outreach to the local community.   An RVH may also be a simple
   gathering of people to remotely watch Working Group sessions. 

   Legal and session management procedures need not be followed
 


Elkins                  Expires January 4, 2018                 [Page 4]

INTERNET DRAFT          draft-elkins-ietf-rvh-00            July 3, 2017


   (including NOTE-WELL and blue sheets).   

   One or more onsite coordinators may be present.

3  Relationship to IETF Meetings

   The RVH will be at the time of the IETF meeting.  An RVH may decide
   to have multiple rooms with multiple simultaneous sessions mirroring
   those at the face-to-face meeting or it may choose to have a single
   room with selected Working Group sessions. This is at the discretion
   of the RPH.   The sessions to be held at the RPH SHOULD be
   communicated to the IETF Secretariat for posting in the Wiki. 

   It SHOULD also mention any restrictions such as:

   1.  Only employees of the hosting organization are allowed
   2.  Restrictions on carrying laptops or recording devices
   3.  Specific proof of identity required to access the premises

3.1  Registration

   An attendee at an RPH MAY register and this MAY be noted by the IETF
   Secretariat.   This MAY be checked by the onsite co-ordinator, if
   any.

   There may be an online attendance portal having blue sheets provided
   by IETF Secretariat.   The following information may be asked:

           a.    Name
           b.    Organization
           c.    Registration Number 
           d.    Location

3.2  Cost

   There may be a charge to attend an RPH.   This may be subsidized by
   entities wishing to do so.

3.3  Timing

   An RPH SHOULD be designated at a minimum of 30 days before the IETF
   meeting.

4   Functioning at Remote Viewing Hubs

4.1 Coordinators

   At least one or preferably two (2) coordinators SHOULD be appointed
 


Elkins                  Expires January 4, 2018                 [Page 5]

INTERNET DRAFT          draft-elkins-ietf-rvh-00            July 3, 2017


   by the RPH.  Contact information MUST be provided to the IETF
   Secretariat for inclusion in the calendar / Wiki.

4.2 Session Management

   Session management as described in RFC2418:  IETF Working Group
   Guidelines and Procedures [RFC2418] Section 3.3 Session Management
   does not apply to Remote Viewing Hubs.

   The coordinators may wish to explain the NOTE Well which is shown at
   the start of the meeting.   Mike queuing discipline and fairness do
   not apply to an RVH.

4.3 Anti-Harassment Procedures

   An RVH may wish to ensure that anti-Harassment procedures according
   to: RFC7776:  IETF Anti-Harassment Procedures [RFC7776] are followed.
     This is in the best interests of all participants.

4.4 Adherence to Proper Procedures

   Proper procedures for an RVH are not defined.   They are at the
   discretion of the participants.

4.5 Recording

   Recording and archiving does not apply to an RVH.

4.6 Technical Functioning

   In order for groups of individuals to remotely view meetings, there
   are certain technical requirements that must be met to ensure a non-
   disruptive and trouble-free meeting experience. This document
   outlines the proper configuration for remote participation to various
   conferences throughout the world.

   This section is needed only for a relatively large group of viewers.

4.6.1 Bandwidth

   Adequate and good quality wired bandwidth is extremely important in
   order to have audio, video and presentations viewed with good
   quality.

4.6.2 Physical Room Layout

   The layout of the meeting room is important in order for everyone to
   properly view the presentations.  It is suggested that the
 


Elkins                  Expires January 4, 2018                 [Page 6]

INTERNET DRAFT          draft-elkins-ietf-rvh-00            July 3, 2017


   coordinators keep the following points in mind when selecting and
   setting up the venue:

   a. Allow for plenty of time to set up and test the equipment prior to
   your first meeting.

   b. Each attendee will need at least one power port. 

   c. Heating and cooling can be a major factor.  Note that projectors
   and TVs can add to the room's heat.

   d. Take note of the location and quantity of the power and network
   connection points.

4.6.3 Audio

   A sound system that is properly sized to the audience is important.
   This will allow everyone to hear the speakers.  The coordinators may
   wish to consider using a robust audio system and a qualified
   technical person to install and operate the equipment throughout the
   duration of the meeting.


4.7 Responsibilities/Functions of the RVH Coordinators

   The RVH coordinators, if any, may wish to consider doing one or more
   of the activities below.

   1. To support the participants on how to participate remotely in IETF
   meetings on an individual basis.

   2. Take a lead in the facilitation of sessions ensuring continuity of
   the remote session.

   3. Take the attendance along with the IETF remote registration number

   4. Encourage the participants to participate in Working Group email
   lists.

   5. Submit the count of attendees to the IETF Secretariat.

   6. Set up the space with the appropriate furniture, equipment and
   materials for the IETF WG session each day.

   7. Create a documentation process through photos and keep an
   organized archive for the sessions.


 


Elkins                  Expires January 4, 2018                 [Page 7]

INTERNET DRAFT          draft-elkins-ietf-rvh-00            July 3, 2017


4.8 Language of the communication of RVH

   The RVH may communicate in any language desired.

5  Remote Support Tools

   The remote support tools used are at the discretion of the RVH.

5.1 Communications

   The remote communications methods today include Jabber and MeetEcho. 
   These shall be used.  If new methods arise, then they may be used as
   well.


6 IETF Secretariat Support

6.1 Calendar

   The IETF Secretariat will maintain a calendar of locations and times
   for all RVH's for that IETF meeting.   Historical information SHOULD
   be kept according to the section on Metrics.

6.2 Wiki / Web Page

   The IETF Secretariat will maintain a Wiki or web page indicating
   which working group sessions are being held at the RVH.   This
   information SHOULD be kept historically according to the section on
   Metrics.

6.3 Registration

   The IETF Secretariat MAY account for all registrations at an RPH. 
   Historical information MAY be kept according to the section on
   Metrics.

7 IETF Liaison 

   An IETF liaison is not needed for an RVH.

8 Metrics

   The following metrics SHOULD be kept for RVH's:

   - Location (Economy / name of country)
   - Name
   - Name of coordinators
   - Number of attendees registered 
 


Elkins                  Expires January 4, 2018                 [Page 8]

INTERNET DRAFT          draft-elkins-ietf-rvh-00            July 3, 2017


   - Number of sessions
   - The Working Groups followed
   - Number of participants in each session (regardless of time)


   Metrics may Include the following questions to the RVH.   Potential
   Metrics Survey Questions may be:

   - How many RVHs were there and in which Location?
   - How many people participated at the RVH?
   - What sessions did they attend? 
   - Were there other associated activities in the RVH?
   - Did any participant ask questions or make relevant comments?
   - Were there any difficulties experienced?
   - How might we (IETF) make it easier?
   - How would you suggest we acknowledge the attendance? 
   - Will there be one or more RVHs for future IETF meetings?
   - Will there be activities in the location between two IETF meetings?
   - If yes, what kind of activities, are planned?

9 Mentoring

   The RVH will not provide special mentoring.   The mentoring may be
   provided if there is a local group willing to provide it.  However,
   the specification of that is outside the scope of this document.

10  Legal Issues

10.1 IETF Rights in Contributions

   Participation in an RVH will not be considered a contribution to the
   IETF.  Issues of Intellectual Property Rights, confidentiality, trade
   marks, etc. as noted by the appropriate section in RFC5378: Rights
   Contributors Provide to the IETF Trust [RFC5378] do not apply to an
   RVH.

10.2 Note Well

   A "note well" as is commonly used at face-to-face meetings need not
   be shown at an RPH session.

10.3 IETF Brand / Logo

   The IETF logo may be used to in an RVH with the prior approval of the
   IETF trustees.

11  Security Considerations

 


Elkins                  Expires January 4, 2018                 [Page 9]

INTERNET DRAFT          draft-elkins-ietf-rvh-00            July 3, 2017


   There are no security considerations.

12 IANA Considerations

   There are no IANA considerations.

13  References

13.1  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
   Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

   [RFC2418]  Bradner, S., "IETF Working Group Guidelines and
   Procedures", BCP 25, September 1998.

   [RFC5378]  Bradner, S., "Rights Contributors Provide to the IETF
   Trust", BCP 78, November 2008

   [RFC7776] Resnick, P., "IETF Anti-Harassment Procedures", BCP 25,
   March 2016

13.2  Informative References



Authors' Addresses

   Nalini Elkins
   Inside Products, Inc.
   36A Upper Circle
   Carmel Valley, CA 93924
   United States
   Phone: +1 831 659 8360
   Email: nalini.elkins@insidethestack.com
   http://www.insidethestack.com


   Harish Chowdhary
   NIXI
   India
   Email: harish@nixi.in

   T.Santhosh 
   Ministry of Electronics and Information Technology
   Government of India
   Electronics Niketan, 6 CGO Complex, 
   New Delhi - 110003 (India) 
 


Elkins                  Expires January 4, 2018                [Page 10]

INTERNET DRAFT          draft-elkins-ietf-rvh-00            July 3, 2017


   Tel: +91-11-24364741, 24301831

   V. hegde
   Independent
   vinayakh@gmail.com














































Elkins                  Expires January 4, 2018                [Page 11]
