
Internet Draft             SNMPv2 MIB for UDP                  June 1995




                   SNMPv2 Management Information Base
                     for the User Datagram Protocol

                        Fri Jun 30 23:59:59 1995

                    draft-ietf-snmpv2-udp-ds-02.txt


                            Jeffrey D. Case
                          SNMP Research, Inc.
                             case@snmp.com

                            Keith McCloghrie
                          Cisco Systems, Inc.
                             kzm@cisco.com

                            Marshall T. Rose
                      Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.
                         mrose@dbc.mtview.ca.us

                           Steven Waldbusser
                       Carnegie Mellon University
                           waldbusser@cmu.edu






Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
``1id-abstracts.txt'' listing contained in the Internet- Drafts Shadow





Expires December 1995                                           [Page 1]





Internet Draft             SNMPv2 MIB for UDP                  June 1995


Directories on ds.internic.net (US East Coast), nic.nordu.net (Europe),
ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast), or munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim).
















































Expires December 1995                                           [Page 2]





Internet Draft             SNMPv2 MIB for UDP                  June 1995


1.  Introduction

A management system contains: several (potentially many) nodes, each
with a processing entity, termed an agent, which has access to
management instrumentation; at least one management station; and, a
management protocol, used to convey management information between the
agents and management stations.  Operations of the protocol are carried
out under an administrative framework which defines authentication,
authorization, access control, and privacy policies.

Management stations execute management applications which monitor and
control managed elements.  Managed elements are devices such as hosts,
routers, terminal servers, etc., which are monitored and controlled via
access to their management information.

Management information is viewed as a collection of managed objects,
residing in a virtual information store, termed the Management
Information Base (MIB).  Collections of related objects are defined in
MIB modules.  These modules are written using a subset of OSI's Abstract
Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) [1], termed the Structure of Management
Information (SMI) [2].

This document is the MIB module which defines managed objects for
managing implementations of the User Datagram Protocol (UDP) [3].

The managed objects in this MIB module were originally defined using the
SNMPv1 framework as a part of MIB-II [4].  This document defines the
same objects for UDP using the SNMPv2 framework.






















Expires December 1995                                           [Page 3]





Internet Draft             SNMPv2 MIB for UDP                  June 1995


2.  Definitions

UDP-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, Counter32,
    experimental,                       -- to be removed later
    IpAddress, mib-2                   FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP    FROM SNMPv2-CONF;


udpMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9411010000Z"
    ORGANIZATION "IETF SNMPv2 Working Group"
    CONTACT-INFO
            "        Keith McCloghrie

             Postal: Cisco Systems, Inc.
                     170 West Tasman Drive
                     San Jose, CA  95134-1706
                     US

             Phone:  +1 408 526 5260
             Email:  kzm@cisco.com"
    DESCRIPTION
            "The MIB module for managing UDP implementations."
    REVISION      "9103310000Z"
    DESCRIPTION
            "The initial revision of this MIB module was part of MIB-
            II."
                     -- to be assigned as {mib-2 xx} by IANA
    ::= { experimental xx }


















Expires December 1995                                           [Page 4]





Internet Draft             SNMPv2 MIB for UDP                  June 1995


-- the UDP group

udp      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { mib-2 7 }

udpInDatagrams OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of UDP datagrams delivered to UDP users."
    ::= { udp 1 }

udpNoPorts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of received UDP datagrams for which there
            was no application at the destination port."
    ::= { udp 2 }

udpInErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of received UDP datagrams that could not be
            delivered for reasons other than the lack of an application
            at the destination port."
    ::= { udp 3 }

udpOutDatagrams OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of UDP datagrams sent from this entity."
    ::= { udp 4 }


-- the UDP Listener table

-- The UDP listener table contains information about this
-- entity's UDP end-points on which a local application is
-- currently accepting datagrams.





Expires December 1995                                           [Page 5]





Internet Draft             SNMPv2 MIB for UDP                  June 1995


udpTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF UdpEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A table containing UDP listener information."
    ::= { udp 5 }

udpEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      UdpEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Information about a particular current UDP listener."
    INDEX   { udpLocalAddress, udpLocalPort }
    ::= { udpTable 1 }

UdpEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        udpLocalAddress  IpAddress,
        udpLocalPort     INTEGER
    }

udpLocalAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The local IP address for this UDP listener.  In the case of
            a UDP listener which is willing to accept datagrams for any
            IP interface associated with the node, the value 0.0.0.0 is
            used."
    ::= { udpEntry 1 }

udpLocalPort OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The local port number for this UDP listener."
    ::= { udpEntry 2 }










Expires December 1995                                           [Page 6]





Internet Draft             SNMPv2 MIB for UDP                  June 1995


-- conformance information

udpMIBConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { udpMIB 2 }

udpMIBCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { udpMIBConformance 1 }
udpMIBGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { udpMIBConformance 2 }


-- compliance statements

udpMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for SNMPv2 entities which
            implement UDP."
    MODULE  -- this module
        MANDATORY-GROUPS { udpGroup
                           }
    ::= { udpMIBCompliances 1 }

-- units of conformance

udpGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { udpInDatagrams, udpNoPorts,
                udpInErrors, udpOutDatagrams,
                udpLocalAddress, udpLocalPort }
    STATUS    current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The udp group of objects providing for management of UDP
            entities."
    ::= { udpMIBGroups 1 }

END

















Expires December 1995                                           [Page 7]





Internet Draft             SNMPv2 MIB for UDP                  June 1995


3.  Acknowledgements

This document contains a modified subset of RFC 1213.


4.  References

[1]  Information processing systems - Open Systems Interconnection -
     Specification of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1),
     International Organization for Standardization.  International
     Standard 8824, (December, 1987).

[2]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Structure
     of Management Information for version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", Internet Draft, SNMP Research, Inc.,
     Cisco Systems, Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., Carnegie Mellon
     University, March 1995.

[3]  Postel, J., "User Datagram Protocol", STD 6, RFC 768, USC-ISI,
     August 1980.

[4]  McCloghrie, K., and Rose, M., "Management Information Base for
     Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II", STD 17, RFC
     1213, March 1991.


























Expires December 1995                                           [Page 8]





Internet Draft             SNMPv2 MIB for UDP                  June 1995


5.  Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.


6.  Authors' Addresses

     Jeffrey D. Case
     SNMP Research, Inc.
     3001 Kimberlin Heights Rd.
     Knoxville, TN  37920-9716
     US

     Phone: +1 615 573 1434
     Email: case@snmp.com


     Keith McCloghrie
     Cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive
     San Jose, CA  95134-1706
     US

     Phone: +1 408 526 5260
     Email: kzm@cisco.com


     Marshall T. Rose
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.
     420 Whisman Court
     Mountain View, CA  94043-2186
     US

     Phone: +1 415 968 1052
     Email: mrose@dbc.mtview.ca.us

     Steven Waldbusser
     Carnegie Mellon University
     5000 Forbes Ave
     Pittsburgh, PA  15213
     US

     Phone: +1 412 268 6628
     Email: waldbusser@cmu.edu






Expires December 1995                                           [Page 9]





Internet Draft             SNMPv2 MIB for UDP                  June 1995


Table of Contents


1 Introduction ....................................................    3
2 Definitions .....................................................    4
2.1 The UDP Group .................................................    5
2.2 Conformance Information .......................................    7
2.2.1 Compliance Statements .......................................    7
2.2.2 Units of Conformance ........................................    7
3 Acknowledgements ................................................    8
4 References ......................................................    8
5 Security Considerations .........................................    9
6 Authors' Addresses ..............................................    9





































Expires December 1995                                          [Page 10]

