Internet Engineering Task Force                                   PIM-WG
INTERNET-DRAFT                                                    Editor
draft-ietf-pim-mib-v2-01.txt                           Jonathan Nicholas
                                                                ITT A/CD
                                                           November 2002
                                                        Expires May 2003


                    Protocol Independent Multicast MIB



Status of this Document

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

This document is a product of the IETF PIM WG.  Comments should be
addressed to the authors, or the WG's mailing list at
pim@catarina.usc.edu.



                                Abstract

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing the Protocol
Independent Multicast (PIM) protocol.












Nicholas                                                        [Page 1]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002


                            Table of Contents

   1 Introduction .................................................  2
   2 The SNMP Network Management Framework ........................  2
   3 Overview .....................................................  3
   4 Definitions ..................................................  4
   5 Security Considerations ...................................... 29
   6 Acknowledgements ............................................. 30
   7 Authors' Addresses ........................................... 30
   8 References ................................................... 30


1.  Introduction

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing the Protocol
Independent Multicast (PIM) protocol [18,19].


2.  The SNMP Network Management Framework

The SNMP Management Framework presently consists of five major
components:

* An overall architecture, described in RFC 2571 [1].

* Mechanisms for describing and naming objects and events for the
  purpose of management.  The first version of this Structure of
  Management Information (SMI) is called SMIv1 and described in STD 16,
  RFC 1155 [2], STD 16, RFC 1212 [3] and RFC 1215 [4].  The second 
  version, called SMIv2, is described in STD 58, RFC 2578 [5], STD 58,
  RFC 2579 [6] and STD 58, RFC 2580 [7].

* Message protocols for transferring management information.  The first
  version of the SNMP message protocol is called SNMPv1 and described
  in STD 15, RFC 1157 [8].  A second version of the SNMP message
  protocol, which is not an Internet standards track protocol, is called
  SNMPv2c and described in RFC 1901 [9] and RFC 1906 [10].  The third 
  version of the message protocol is called SNMPv3 and described in 
  RFC 1906 [10], RFC 2572 [11] and RFC 2574 [12].

* Protocol operations for accessing management information.  The first
  set of protocol operations and associated PDU formats is described in
  STD 15, RFC 1157 [8].  A second set of protocol operations and 
  associated PDU formats is described in RFC 1905 [13].

* A set of fundamental applications described in RFC 2573 [14] and the
  view-based access control mechanism described in RFC 2575 [15].




Nicholas                                                        [Page 2]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: December 2002               June 2002

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the mechanisms defined in the SMI.

This memo specifies a MIB module that is compliant to the SMIv2.  A MIB
conforming to the SMIv1 can be produced through the appropriate
translations.  The resulting translated MIB must be semantically
equivalent, except where objects or events are omitted because no
translation is possible (use of Counter64).  Some machine readable
information in SMIv2 will be converted into textual descriptions in
SMIv1 during the translation process.  However, this loss of machine
readable information is not considered to change the semantics of the
MIB.


3.  Overview

This MIB module contains one scalar and eight tables.  Some of the
objects in these tables are deprecated.  This MIB contains deprecated
objects since they are necessary for managing PIMv1 routers, but PIMv1
itself is obsoleted by PIM v2 [18,19].

The tables contained in this MIB are:

   (1)  The PIM Interface Table contains one row for each of the
        router's PIM interfaces.

   (2)  The PIM Neighbor Table contains one row for each of the router's
        PIM neighbors.

   (3)  The PIM IP Multicast Route Table contains one row for each
        multicast routing entry whose incoming interface is running PIM.

   (4)  The PIM Next Hop Table which contains one row for each outgoing
        interface list entry in the multicast routing table whose
        interface is running PIM, and whose state is pruned.

   (5)  The (deprecated) PIM RP Table contains the PIM (version 1)
        information for IP multicast groups which is common to all RPs
        of a group.

   (6)  The PIM RP-Set Table contains the PIM (version 2) information
        for sets of candidate Rendezvous Points (RPs) for IP multicast
        group addresses with particular address prefixes.

   (7)  The PIM Candidate-RP Table contains the IP multicast groups for
        which the local router is to advertise itself as a Candidate-RP.
        If this table is empty, then the local router advertises itself
        as a Candidate-RP for all groups.

   (8)  The PIM Component Table contains one row for each of the PIM
        domains to which the router is connected.


Nicholas                                                        [Page 3]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

4.  Definitions

PIM-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, experimental,
    NOTIFICATION-TYPE,
    Integer32, IpAddress, TimeTicks  FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    RowStatus, TruthValue            FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP,
    NOTIFICATION-GROUP               FROM SNMPv2-CONF
    ipMRouteGroup, ipMRouteSource,
    ipMRouteSourceMask, ipMRouteNextHopGroup,
    ipMRouteNextHopSource, ipMRouteNextHopSourceMask,
    ipMRouteNextHopIfIndex,
    ipMRouteNextHopAddress           FROM IPMROUTE-STD-MIB
    InterfaceIndex                   FROM IF-MIB;

pimMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "200210280000Z" -- October 28, 2002
    ORGANIZATION "IETF PIM Working Group."
    CONTACT-INFO
            " Jonathan Nicholas
              ITT Industries
              Aerospace/Communications Division
              100 Kingsland Rd
              Clifton, NJ 07014

              Phone: +1 973 284 2019
              EMail: jonathan.nicholas@itt.com"
    DESCRIPTION
            "The MIB module for management of PIM routers."
    REVISION     "200009280000Z" -- September 28, 2000
    DESCRIPTION
            "Initial version, published as RFC 2934."    
    REVISION     "200210280000Z" -- October 28, 2002
    DESCRIPTION
            "Revised November 4, 2002."
    ::= { experimental 61 }

pimMIBObjects OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { pimMIB 1 }

pimTraps      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { pimMIBObjects 0 }

pim           OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { pimMIBObjects 1 }









Nicholas                                                        [Page 4]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimJoinPruneInterval OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The default interval at which periodic PIM-SM Join/Prune
            messages are to be sent."
    DEFVAL { 60 }
    ::= { pim 1 }


-- The PIM Interface Table

pimInterfaceTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF PimInterfaceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing the router's PIM interfaces.
            IGMP and PIM are enabled on all interfaces listed in this
            table."
    ::= { pim 2 }

pimInterfaceEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     PimInterfaceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the pimInterfaceTable."
    INDEX      { pimInterfaceIfIndex }
    ::= { pimInterfaceTable 1 }

PimInterfaceEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    pimInterfaceIfIndex            InterfaceIndex,
    pimInterfaceAddress            IpAddress,
    pimInterfaceNetMask            IpAddress,
    pimInterfaceMode               INTEGER,
    pimInterfaceDR                 IpAddress,
    pimInterfaceHelloInterval      Integer32,
    pimInterfaceStatus             RowStatus,
    pimInterfaceJoinPruneInterval  Integer32,
    pimInterfaceCBSRPreference     Integer32,
    pimInterfaceTrigHelloInterval  Integer32,
    pimInterfaceHelloHoldtime      Integer32,
    pimInterfaceLanPruneDelay      BITS,
    pimInterfacePropagationDelay   Integer32,
    pimInterfaceOverrideInterval   Integer32,
    pimInterfaceGenerationID       BITS,
    pimInterfaceJoinPruneHoldtime  Integer32,
    pimInterfaceGraftRetryInterval Integer32,
    pimInterfaceMaxGraftRetries    Integer32,
    pimInterfaceSRTTLThreshold     Integer32,

Nicholas                                                        [Page 5]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

    pimInterfaceLanDelayEnabled    TruthValue,
    pimInterfaceSRCapable          TruthValue,
    pimInterfaceDRPriority         Integer32
}

pimInterfaceIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The ifIndex value of this PIM interface."
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 1 }

pimInterfaceAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the PIM interface."
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 2 }

pimInterfaceNetMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The network mask for the IP address of the PIM interface."
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 3 }

pimInterfaceMode OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER { dense(1), sparse(2), sparseDense(3) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The configured mode of this PIM interface.  A value of
            sparseDense is only valid for PIMv1."
    DEFVAL     { dense }
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 4 }

pimInterfaceDR OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The Designated Router on this PIM interface."
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 5 }








Nicholas                                                        [Page 6]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimInterfaceHelloInterval OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The frequency at which PIM Hello messages are transmitted
            on this interface."
    DEFVAL     { 30 }
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 6 }

pimInterfaceStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this entry.  Creating the entry enables PIM
            on the interface; destroying the entry disables PIM on the
            interface."
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 7 }

pimInterfaceJoinPruneInterval OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The frequency at which PIM Join/Prune messages are
            transmitted on this PIM interface.  The default value of
            this object is the pimJoinPruneInterval."
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 8 }

pimInterfaceCBSRPreference OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (-1..255)
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The preference value for the local interface as a candidate
            bootstrap router.  The value of -1 is used to indicate that
            the local interface is not a candidate BSR interface."
    DEFVAL     { 0 }
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 9 }

pimInterfaceTrigHelloInterval OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX Integer32 
    UNITS "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The maximum time before a triggered PIM Hello message 
                 is transmitted on this interface."
    DEFVAL { 5 } 
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 10 } 


Nicholas                                                        [Page 7]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimInterfaceHelloHoldtime OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX Integer32 (0..65535) 
    UNITS "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The value set in the Holdtime field of Hello messages 
                 transmitted on this interface.  This should be 3.5 
                 times the value of pimInterfaceHelloInterval."
    DEFVAL { 105 } 
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 11 } 

pimInterfaceLanPruneDelay OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX BITS { off (0), on (1) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "Turns the LAN Prune Delay Option off and on on this 
                 interface."
    DEFVAL { on }
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 12 }

pimInterfacePropagationDelay OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX Integer32 (0..32767)
    UNITS "milliseconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The value inserted into the LAN Prune Delay field of a 
                 LAN Prune Delay option on this interface."
    DEFVAL { 500 } 
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 13 }

pimInterfaceOverrideInterval OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX Integer32 (0..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The value inserted into the Override Interval field of 
                 a LAN Prune Delay option on this interface."
    DEFVAL { 2500 } 
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 14 } 

pimInterfaceGenerationID OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX BITS { off (0), on (1) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "Turns the Generation ID Option off and on on this 
                 interface."
    DEFVAL { off } 
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 15 }







Nicholas                                                        [Page 8]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimInterfaceJoinPruneHoldtime OBJECT_TYPE
    SYNTAX Integer32 (0..65535)
    UNITS "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The value inserted into the Holdtime field of a Join/
                 Prune message sent on this interface.  The value should
                 be 3.5 times pimInterfaceJoinPruneInterval."
    DEFVAL { 210 }
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 16 }

pimInterfaceGraftRetryInterval OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX Integer32
    UNITS "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The interval a PIM router waits for a Graft Ack before 
                 resending a Graft on this interface."
    DEFVAL { 3 } 
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 17 } 

pimInterfaceMaxGraftRetries OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX Integer32 
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The maximum number of times this router will resend a 
                 Graft on this interface."
    DEFVAL { 2 } 
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 18 }

pimInterfaceSRTTLThreshold OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX Integer32 
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The Time To Live in a PIM-DM State Refresh message at
                 which it is not forwarded on this interface."
    DEFVAL { 0 } 
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 19 }

pimInterfaceLanDelayEnabled OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "Evaluates to TRUE if all routers on this interface are
                 using the LAN Prune Delay Option."
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 20 }








Nicholas                                                        [Page 9]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimInterfaceSRCapable OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "Evaluates to TRUE if all routers on this interface are
                 using the State Refresh Capable Option."
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 21 }

pimInterfaceDRPriority OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The Designater Router Priority inserted into the DR
                 priority option on this interface."
    DEFVAL { 1 }
    ::= { pimInterfaceEntry 22 }


-- The PIM Neighbor Table

pimNeighborTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF PimNeighborEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing the router's PIM neighbors."
    ::= { pim 3 }

pimNeighborEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     PimNeighborEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the pimNeighborTable."
    INDEX      { pimNeighborAddress }
    ::= { pimNeighborTable 1 }

PimNeighborEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    pimNeighborAddress          IpAddress,
    pimNeighborIfIndex          InterfaceIndex,
    pimNeighborUpTime           TimeTicks,
    pimNeighborExpiryTime       TimeTicks,
    pimNeighborMode             INTEGER,
    pimNeighborLanPruneDelay    Integer32,
    pimNeighborOverrideInterval Integer32,
    pimNeighborTBit             BITS,
    pimNeighborSRCapable        TruthValue,
    pimNeighborDRPresent        TruthValue
}





Nicholas                                                       [Page 10]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimNeighborAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the PIM neighbor for which this entry
            contains information."
    ::= { pimNeighborEntry 1 }

pimNeighborIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of ifIndex for the interface used to reach this
            PIM neighbor."
    ::= { pimNeighborEntry 2 }

pimNeighborUpTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The time since this PIM neighbor (last) became a neighbor
            of the local router."
    ::= { pimNeighborEntry 3 }

pimNeighborExpiryTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The minimum time remaining before this PIM neighbor will be
            aged out."
    ::= { pimNeighborEntry 4 }

pimNeighborMode OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER { dense(1), sparse(2) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The active PIM mode of this neighbor.  This object is
            deprecated for PIMv2 routers since all neighbors on the
            interface must be either dense or sparse as determined by
            the protocol running on the interface."
    ::= { pimNeighborEntry 5 }








Nicholas                                                       [Page 11]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimNeighborLANPruneDelay OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The value of LAN Prune Delay field of the LAN Prune 
                 Delay Option received from this neighbor.  A value of 
                 0 indicates that no LAN Prune Delay Option was 
                 received from this neigbor."
    ::= { pimNeighborEntry 6 }

pimNeighborOverrideInterval OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The value of Override Interval field of the LAN Prune
                 Delay Option received from this neighbor.  A value of 
                 0 indicates that no LAN Prune Delay Option was
                 received from this neigbor."
    ::= { pimNeighborEntry 7 }

pimNeighborTBit OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX BITS
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The value of the T bit field of the LAN Prune
                 Delay Option received from this neighbor.  The T bit
                 specifies the ability of the neighbor to disable
                 join suppression."
    ::= { pimNeighborEntry 8 }

pimNeighborSRCapable OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "Evaluates to TRUE if this neighbor is using the State
                 Refresh Capable Option."
    ::= { pimNeighborEntry 9 }

pimNeighborDRPresent OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "Evaluates to TRUE if this neighbor is using the
                 Designated Router Option."
    ::= { pimNeighborEntry 10 }









Nicholas                                                       [Page 12]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

--
-- The PIM IP Multicast Route Table
--

pimIpMRouteTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF PimIpMRouteEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing PIM-specific information on
            a subset of the rows of the ipMRouteTable defined in the IP
            Multicast MIB."
    ::= { pim 4 }

pimIpMRouteEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     PimIpMRouteEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the pimIpMRouteTable.  There
            is one entry per entry in the ipMRouteTable whose incoming
            interface is running PIM."
    INDEX      { ipMRouteGroup, ipMRouteSource, ipMRouteSourceMask }
    ::= { pimIpMRouteTable 1 }

PimIpMRouteEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    pimIpMRouteUpstreamAssertTimer   TimeTicks,
    pimIpMRouteAssertMetric          Integer32,
    pimIpMRouteAssertMetricPref      Integer32,
    pimIpMRouteAssertRPTBit          TruthValue,
    pimIpMRouteFlags                 BITS,
    pimIpMRouteRPFNeighbor           IpAddress,
    pimIpMRouteSourceTimer           TimeTicks,
    pimIpMRouteOriginatorSRTTL       Integer32
}

pimIpMRouteUpstreamAssertTimer OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The time remaining before the router changes its upstream
            neighbor back to its RPF neighbor.  This timer is called the
            Assert timer in the PIM Sparse and Dense mode specification.
            A value of 0 indicates that no Assert has changed the
            upstream neighbor away from the RPF neighbor."
    ::= { pimIpMRouteEntry 1 }







Nicholas                                                       [Page 13]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimIpMRouteAssertMetric OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The metric advertised by the assert winner on the upstream
            interface, or 0 if no such assert is in received."
    ::= { pimIpMRouteEntry 2 }

pimIpMRouteAssertMetricPref OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The preference advertised by the assert winner on the
            upstream interface, or 0 if no such assert is in effect."
    ::= { pimIpMRouteEntry 3 }

pimIpMRouteAssertRPTBit OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of the RPT-bit advertised by the assert winner on
            the upstream interface, or false if no such assert is in
            effect."
    ::= { pimIpMRouteEntry 4 }

pimIpMRouteFlags OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     BITS {
                  rpt(0),
                  spt(1)
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This object describes PIM-specific flags related to a
            multicast state entry.  See the PIM Sparse Mode
            specification for the meaning of the RPT and SPT bits."
    ::= { pimIpMRouteEntry 5 }

pimIpMRouteRPFNeighbor OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The IP Address of the current RPF neighbor.  If there
                 is an upstream Assert Winner, it will be the RPF
                 neighbor.  Otherwise, the RPF neighbor will be
                 the next hop indicated by unicast routing."
    ::= { pimIpMRouteEntry 6 }




Nicholas                                                       [Page 14]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimIpMRouteSourceTimer OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The time before this router ceases originating State
                 Refresh messages for this route."
    ::= { pimIpMRouteEntry 7 }

pimIpMRouteOriginatorSRTTL  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Integer32
    MAX_ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The TTL used in State Refresh messages originated by
                 this router for this route."
    ::= { pimIpMRouteEntry 8 }

--
-- The PIM Next Hop Table
--

pimIpMRouteNextHopTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF PimIpMRouteNextHopEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing PIM-specific information on
            a subset of the rows of the ipMRouteNextHopTable defined in
            the IP Multicast MIB."
    ::= { pim 7 }
pimIpMRouteNextHopEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     PimIpMRouteNextHopEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the pimIpMRouteNextHopTable.
            There is one entry per entry in the ipMRouteNextHopTable
            whose interface is running PIM and whose
            ipMRouteNextHopState is pruned(1)."
    INDEX      { ipMRouteNextHopGroup, ipMRouteNextHopSource,
                 ipMRouteNextHopSourceMask, ipMRouteNextHopIfIndex,
                 ipMRouteNextHopAddress }
    ::= { pimIpMRouteNextHopTable 1 }

PimIpMRouteNextHopEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    pimIpMRouteNextHopPruneReason       INTEGER,
    pimIpMRouteNextHopAssertWinner      IpAddress,
    pimIpMRouteNextHopAssertTimer       TimeTicks,
    pimIpMRouteNextHopAssertMetric      Integer32,
    pimIpMRouteNextHopAssertMetricPref  Integer32,
    pimIpMRouteNextHopJoinPruneTimer    TimeTicks
}



Nicholas                                                       [Page 15]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimIpMRouteNextHopPruneReason OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                  other (1),
                  prune (2),
                  assert (3)
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This object indicates why the downstream interface was
            pruned, whether in response to a PIM prune message or due to
            PIM Assert processing."
    ::= { pimIpMRouteNextHopEntry 2 }

pimIpMRouteNextHopAssertWinner OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The IP Address of the Assert Winner."
    ::= { pimIpMRouteNextHopEntry 3 }

pimIpMRouteNextHopAssertTimer OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The time remaining before the PIM router leaves the
                 current Assert state.  A value of 0 indicates that the
                 router is in the No Info state."
    ::= { pimIpMRouteNextHopEntry 4 }
pimIpMRouteNextHopAssertMetric OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The metric advertised by the Assert Winner."
    ::= { pimIpMRouteNextHopEntry 5 }

pimIpMRouteNextHopAssertMetricPref OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The metric preference advertised by the Assert Winner."
    ::= { pimIpMRouteNextHopEntry 6 }

pimIpMRouteNextHopJoinPruneTimer OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The time remaining before the PIM router reverts to
                 default operation on this interface.  PIM-SM will 
                 cease forwarding, PIM-DM will resume forwarding."
    ::= { pimIpMRouteNextHopEntry 7 }ss, pimRPAddress }
    ::= { pimRPTable 1 }


Nicholas                                                       [Page 16]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002


-- The PIM RP Table

pimRPTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF PimRPEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing PIM version 1 information
            for the Rendezvous Points (RPs) for IP multicast groups.
            This table is deprecated since its function is replaced by
            the pimRPSetTable for PIM version 2."
    ::= { pim 5 }

pimRPEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     PimRPEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the pimRPTable.  There is one
            entry per RP address for each IP multicast group."
    INDEX      { pimRPGroupAddre
PimRPEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    pimRPGroupAddress    IpAddress,
    pimRPAddress         IpAddress,
    pimRPState           INTEGER,
    pimRPStateTimer      TimeTicks,
    pimRPLastChange      TimeTicks,
    pimRPRowStatus       RowStatus
}

pimRPGroupAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP multicast group address for which this entry
            contains information about an RP."
    ::= { pimRPEntry 1 }

pimRPAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The unicast address of the RP."
    ::= { pimRPEntry 2 }







Nicholas                                                       [Page 17]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimRPState OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER { up(1), down(2) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The state of the RP."
    ::= { pimRPEntry 3 }

pimRPStateTimer OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The minimum time remaining before the next state change.
            When pimRPState is up, this is the minimum time which must
            expire until it can be declared down.  When pimRPState is
            down, this is the time until it will be declared up (in
            order to retry)."
    ::= { pimRPEntry 4 }

pimRPLastChange OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of sysUpTime at the time when the corresponding
            instance of pimRPState last changed its value."
    ::= { pimRPEntry 5 }

pimRPRowStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this row, by which new entries may be
            created, or old entries deleted from this table."
    ::= { pimRPEntry 6 }

-- The PIM RP-Set Table

pimRPSetTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF PimRPSetEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing PIM information for
            candidate Rendezvous Points (RPs) for IP multicast groups.
            When the local router is the BSR, this information is
            obtained from received Candidate-RP-Advertisements.  When
            the local router is not the BSR, this information is
            obtained from received RP-Set messages."
    ::= { pim 6 }


Nicholas                                                       [Page 18]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimRPSetEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     PimRPSetEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the pimRPSetTable."
    INDEX      { pimRPSetComponent, pimRPSetGroupAddress,
                 pimRPSetGroupMask, pimRPSetAddress }
    ::= { pimRPSetTable 1 }

PimRPSetEntry ::= SEQUENCE {

    pimRPSetGroupAddress    IpAddress,
    pimRPSetGroupMask       IpAddress,
    pimRPSetAddress         IpAddress,
    pimRPSetHoldTime        Integer32,
    pimRPSetExpiryTime      TimeTicks,
    pimRPSetComponent       Integer32
}

pimRPSetGroupAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP multicast group address which, when combined with
            pimRPSetGroupMask, gives the group prefix for which this
            entry contains information about the Candidate-RP."
    ::= { pimRPSetEntry 1 }

pimRPSetGroupMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The multicast group address mask which, when combined with
            pimRPSetGroupAddress, gives the group prefix for which this
            entry contains information about the Candidate-RP."
    ::= { pimRPSetEntry 2 }

pimRPSetAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the Candidate-RP."
    ::= { pimRPSetEntry 3 }







Nicholas                                                       [Page 19]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimRPSetHoldTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..255)
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The holdtime of a Candidate-RP.  If the local router is not
            the BSR, this value is 0."
    ::= { pimRPSetEntry 4 }

pimRPSetExpiryTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The minimum time remaining before the Candidate-RP will be
            declared down.  If the local router is not the BSR, this
            value is 0."
    ::= { pimRPSetEntry 5 }

pimRPSetComponent OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..255)
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            " A number uniquely identifying the component.  Each
            protocol instance connected to a separate domain should have
            a different index value."
    ::= { pimRPSetEntry 6 }

--
-- Note: { pim 8 } through { pim 10 } were used in older versions
-- of this MIB.  Since some earlier versions of this MIB have been
-- widely-deployed, these values must not be used in the future,
-- as long the MIB is rooted under { experimental 61 }.
--

-- The PIM Candidate-RP Table

pimCandidateRPTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF PimCandidateRPEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing the IP multicast groups for
            which the local router is to advertise itself as a
            Candidate-RP when the value of pimComponentCRPHoldTime is
            non-zero.  If this table is empty, then the local router
            will advertise itself as a Candidate-RP for all groups
            (providing the value of pimComponentCRPHoldTime is non-
            zero)."
    ::= { pim 11 }


Nicholas                                                       [Page 20]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimCandidateRPEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     PimCandidateRPEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the pimCandidateRPTable."
    INDEX      { pimCandidateRPGroupAddress,
                 pimCandidateRPGroupMask }
    ::= { pimCandidateRPTable 1 }

PimCandidateRPEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    pimCandidateRPGroupAddress    IpAddress,
    pimCandidateRPGroupMask       IpAddress,
    pimCandidateRPAddress         IpAddress,
    pimCandidateRPRowStatus       RowStatus
}

pimCandidateRPGroupAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP multicast group address which, when combined with
            pimCandidateRPGroupMask, identifies a group prefix for which
            the local router will advertise itself as a Candidate-RP."
    ::= { pimCandidateRPEntry 1 }

pimCandidateRPGroupMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The multicast group address mask which, when combined with
            pimCandidateRPGroupMask, identifies a group prefix for which
            the local router will advertise itself as a Candidate-RP."
    ::= { pimCandidateRPEntry 2 }

pimCandidateRPAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (unicast) address of the interface which will be
            advertised as a Candidate-RP."
    ::= { pimCandidateRPEntry 3 }









Nicholas                                                       [Page 21]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimCandidateRPRowStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this row, by which new entries may be
            created, or old entries deleted from this table."
    ::= { pimCandidateRPEntry 4 }


-- The PIM Component Table

pimComponentTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF PimComponentEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table containing objects specific to a PIM
            domain.  One row exists for each domain to which the router
            is connected.  A PIM-SM domain is defined as an area of the
            network over which Bootstrap messages are forwarded.
            Typically, a PIM-SM router will be a member of exactly one
            domain.  This table also supports, however, routers which
            may form a border between two PIM-SM domains and do not
            forward Bootstrap messages between them."
    ::= { pim 12 }

pimComponentEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     PimComponentEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the pimComponentTable."
    INDEX      { pimComponentIndex }
    ::= { pimComponentTable 1 }

PimComponentEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    pimComponentIndex              Integer32,
    pimComponentBSRAddress         IpAddress,
    pimComponentBSRExpiryTime      TimeTicks,
    pimComponentCRPHoldTime        Integer32,
    pimComponentStatus             RowStatus
}











Nicholas                                                       [Page 22]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimComponentIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..255)
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A number uniquely identifying the component.  Each protocol
            instance connected to a separate domain should have a
            different index value.  Routers that only support membership
            in a single PIM-SM domain should use a pimComponentIndex
            value of 1."
    ::= { pimComponentEntry 1 }

pimComponentBSRAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the bootstrap router (BSR) for the local
            PIM region."
    ::= { pimComponentEntry 2 }

pimComponentBSRExpiryTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The minimum time remaining before the bootstrap router in
            the local domain will be declared down.  For candidate BSRs,
            this is the time until the component sends an RP-Set
            message.  For other routers, this is the time until it may
            accept an RP-Set message from a lower candidate BSR."
    ::= { pimComponentEntry 3 }

pimComponentCRPHoldTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..255)
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The holdtime of the component when it is a candidate RP in
            the local domain.  The value of 0 is used to indicate that
            the local system is not a Candidate-RP."
    DEFVAL     { 0 }
    ::= { pimComponentEntry 4 }










Nicholas                                                       [Page 23]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimComponentStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this entry.  Creating the entry creates
            another protocol instance; destroying the entry disables a
            protocol instance."
    ::= { pimComponentEntry 5 }


-- PIM State Refresh Objects

pimSourceLifetime OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX Integer32 
    UNITS "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The maximum time this router will continue to
                 originate State Refresh messages in the absence of
                 traffic from the source itself."
    DEFVAL { 210 } 
    ::= { pim 13 } 

pimStateRefreshInterval OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX Integer32 (1..255) 
    UNITS "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The interval between successive State Refresh
                 messages originated by this router."
    DEFVAL { 60 } 
    ::= { pim 14 } 

pimStateRefreshLimitInterval OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "This router will not forward successive State Refresh
                 messages received at less than this interval."
    DEFVAL { 0 } 
    ::= { pim 15 } 

pimStateRefreshTimeToLive OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION "The TTL to be used by this router's originated State
                 Refresh messages if the data packet's TTL is not
                 recorded."
    DEFVAL { 16 } 
::= { pim 16 }


Nicholas                                                       [Page 24]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002


-- PIM Traps

pimNeighborLoss NOTIFICATION-TYPE
    OBJECTS {
       pimNeighborIfIndex
    }
    STATUS             current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A pimNeighborLoss trap signifies the loss of an adjacency
            with a neighbor.  This trap should be generated when the
            neighbor timer expires, and the router has no other
            neighbors on the same interface with a lower IP address than
            itself."
    ::= { pimTraps 1 }

-- conformance information

pimMIBConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { pimMIB 2 }
pimMIBCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { pimMIBConformance 1 }
pimMIBGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { pimMIBConformance 2 }


-- compliance statements

pimV1MIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for routers running PIMv1 and
            implementing the PIM MIB."
    MODULE  -- this module
        MANDATORY-GROUPS { pimV1MIBGroup }

    ::= { pimMIBCompliances 1 }

pimSparseV2MIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for routers running PIM Sparse
            Mode and implementing the PIM MIB."
    MODULE  -- this module
    MANDATORY-GROUPS { pimV2MIBGroup }

    GROUP      pimV2CandidateRPMIBGroup
    DESCRIPTION
            "This group is mandatory if the router is capable of being a
            Candidate RP."

    OBJECT     pimInterfaceStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
             "Write access is not required."
    ::= { pimMIBCompliances 2 }

Nicholas                                                       [Page 25]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimDenseV2MIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for routers running PIM Dense Mode
            and implementing the PIM MIB."
    MODULE  -- this module

        MANDATORY-GROUPS { pimDenseV2MIBGroup }

    OBJECT     pimInterfaceStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
             "Write access is not required."

    ::= { pimMIBCompliances 3 }

-- units of conformance

pimNotificationGroup NOTIFICATION-GROUP
    NOTIFICATIONS { pimNeighborLoss }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of notifications for signaling important PIM
            events."
    ::= { pimMIBGroups 1 }





























Nicholas                                                       [Page 26]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimV2MIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { pimJoinPruneInterval, pimInterfaceIfIndex,
              pimInterfaceAddress, pimInterfaceNetMask,
              pimInterfaceMode, pimInterfaceDR,
              pimInterfaceHelloInterval, pimInterfaceStatus,
              pimInterfaceJoinPruneInterval,
              pimInterfaceCBSRPreference, pimInterfaceTrigHelloInterval,
              pimInterfaceHelloHoldtime, pimInterfaceLanPruneDelay,
              pimInterfacePropagationDelay,
              pimInterfaceOverrideInterval, pimInterfaceGenerationID,
              pimInterfaceJoinPruneHoldtime,
              pimInterfaceLanDelayEnabled, pimInterfaceDRPriority,
              pimNeighborAddress, pimNeighborInterfaceIfIndex,
              pimNeighborUpTime, pimNeighborExpiryTime,
              pimNeighborLANPruneDelay, pimNeighborOverrideInterval,
              pimNeighborTBit, pimNeighborDRPresent,
              pimIpMRouteUpstreamAssertTimer, pimIpMRouteAssertMetric,
              pimIpMRouteIpRouteAssertMetricPref,
              pimIpMRouteAssertRPTBit, pimIpMRouteFlags,
              pimIpMRouteRPFNeighbor, pimIpMRouteNextHopPruneReason,
              pimRPSetGroupAddress, pimRPSetGroupMask, pimRPSetAddress,
              pimRPSetHoldTime, pimRPSetExpiryTime, pimRPSetComponent,
              pimComponentBSRAddress, pimComponentBSRExpiryTime,
              pimComponentCRPHoldTime, pimComponentStatus
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects to support management of PIM Sparse
            Mode (version 2) routers."
    ::= { pimMIBGroups 2 }

pimDenseV2MIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { pimInterfaceIfIndex, pimInterfaceAddress,
              pimInterfaceNetMask, pimInterfaceHelloInterval,
              pimInterfaceStatus, pimInterfaceTrigHelloInterval,
              pimInterfaceHelloHoldtime, pimInterfaceLanPruneDelay,
              pimInterfacePropagationDelay, pimInterfaceOverrideInterval,
              pimInterfaceGenerationID, pimInterfaceJoinPruneHoldtime,
              pimInterfaceGraftRetryInterval,
              pimInterfaceMaxGraftRetries, pimInterfaceSRTTLThreshold,
              pimInterfaceLanDelayEnabled, pimInterfaceSRCapable,
              pimNeighborIfIndex, pimNeighborUpTime,
              pimNeighborExpiryTime, pimNeighborLANPruneDelay,
              pimNeighborOverrideInterval, pimNeighborSRCapable,
              pimIpMRouteSourceTimer, pimIpMRouteOriginatorSRTTL,
              pimSourceLifetime, pimStateRefreshInterval, 
              pimStateRefreshLimitInterval, pimStateRefreshTimeToLive
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects to support management of PIM Dense
            Mode (version 2) routers."
    ::= { pimMIBGroups 5 }

Nicholas                                                       [Page 27]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimV2CandidateRPMIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { pimCandidateRPAddress,
              pimCandidateRPRowStatus
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects to support configuration of which
            groups a router is to advertise itself as a Candidate-RP."
    ::= { pimMIBGroups 3 }

pimV1MIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { pimJoinPruneInterval, pimNeighborIfIndex,
              pimNeighborUpTime, pimNeighborExpiryTime,
              pimNeighborMode,
              pimInterfaceAddress, pimInterfaceNetMask,
              pimInterfaceJoinPruneInterval, pimInterfaceStatus,
              pimInterfaceMode, pimInterfaceDR,
              pimInterfaceHelloInterval,
              pimRPState, pimRPStateTimer,
              pimRPLastChange, pimRPRowStatus
            }
    STATUS  deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects to support management of PIM
            (version 1) routers."
    ::= { pimMIBGroups 4 }

pimNextHopGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { pimIpMRouteNextHopPruneReason,
              pimIpMRouteNextHopAssertWinner,
              pimIpMRouteNextHopAssertTimer,
              pimIpMRouteNextHopAssertMetric,
              pimIpMRouteNextHopAssertMetricPref,
              pimIpMRouteNextHopJoinPruneTimer
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of optional objects to provide per-next hop
            information for diagnostic purposes.  Supporting this group
            may add a large number of instances to a tree walk, but the
            information in this group can be extremely useful in
            tracking down multicast connectivity problems."
    ::= { pimMIBGroups 6 }











Nicholas                                                       [Page 28]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

pimAssertGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { pimIpMRouteAssertMetric, pimIpMRouteAssertMetricPref,
              pimIpMRouteAssertRPTBit, pimIpMRouteRPFNeighbor}
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of optional objects to provide extra
            information about the assert election process.  There is no
            protocol reason to keep such information, but some
            implementations may already keep this information and make
            it available.  These objects can also be very useful in
            debugging connectivity or duplicate packet problems,
            especially if the assert winner does not support the PIM and
            IP Multicast MIBs."
    ::= { pimMIBGroups 7 }

END


5.  Security Considerations

   This MIB contains readable objects whose values provide information
   related to multicast routing, including information on the network
   topology.  There are also a number of objects that have a MAX-ACCESS
   clause of read-write and/or read-create, which allow an administrator
   to configure PIM in the router.

   While unauthorized access to the readable objects is relatively
   innocuous, unauthorized access to the write-able objects could cause
   a denial of service.  Hence, the support for SET operations in a
   non-secure environment without proper protection can have a negative
   effect on network operations.

   SNMPv1 by itself is such an insecure environment.  Even if the
   network itself is secure (for example by using IPSec), even then,
   there is no control as to who on the secure network is allowed to
   access and SET (change/create/delete) the objects in this MIB.

   It is recommended that the implementers consider the security
   features as provided by the SNMPv3 framework.  Specifically, the use
   of the User-based Security Model RFC 2274 [12] and the View-based
   Access Control Model RFC 2275 [15] is recommended.

   It is then a customer/user responsibility to ensure that the SNMP
   entity giving access to this MIB, is properly configured to give
   access to those objects only to those principals (users) that have
   legitimate rights to access them.








Nicholas                                                       [Page 29]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002


6.  Acknowledgements

   This MIB module is based on the original work in RFC 2934 by
   K. McCloghrie, D. Farinacci, D. Thaler and W. Fenner and has been 
   updated based on feedback from the IETF's Protocol Independent
   Multicast (PIM) Working Group.


7.  Authors' Addresses

   Jonathan Nicholas
   ITT Industries
   Aerospace/Communications Division
   100 Kingsland Rd
   Clifton, NJ  07014

   Phone: +1 973 284 2019
   EMail: Jonathan.Nicholas@itt.com


8.  References

   [1]  Wijnen, B., Harrington, D. and R. Presuhn, "An Architecture for
        Describing SNMP Management Frameworks", RFC 2571, April 1999.

   [2]  Rose, M. and K. McCloghrie, "Structure and Identification of
        Management Information for TCP/IP-based Internets", STD 16, RFC
        1155, May 1990.

   [3]  Rose, M. and K. McCloghrie, "Concise MIB Definitions", STD 16,
        RFC 1212, March 1991.

   [4]  Rose, M., "A Convention for Defining Traps for use with the
        SNMP", RFC 1215, March 1991.

   [5]  McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J., Rose,
        M. and S. Waldbusser, "Structure of Management Information
        Version 2 (SMIv2)", STD 58, RFC 2578, April 1999.

   [6]  McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J., Rose,
        M. and S. Waldbusser, "Textual Conventions for SMIv2", STD 58,
        RFC 2579, April 1999.

   [7]  McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J., Rose,
        M. and S. Waldbusser, "Conformance Statements for SMIv2", STD
        58, RFC 2580, April 1999.

   [8]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M. and J. Davin, "Simple
        Network Management Protocol", STD 15, RFC 1157, May 1990.




Nicholas                                                       [Page 30]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2002              November 2002

   [9]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M. and S. Waldbusser,
        "Introduction to Community-based SNMPv2", RFC 1901, January
        1996.

   [10] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M. and S. Waldbusser, "Transport
        Mappings for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
        (SNMPv2)", RFC 1906, January 1996.

   [11] Case, J., Harrington D., Presuhn R. and B. Wijnen, "Message
        Processing and Dispatching for the Simple Network Management
        Protocol (SNMP)", RFC 2572, April 1999.

   [12] Blumenthal, U. and B. Wijnen, "User-based Security Model (USM)
        for version 3 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
        (SNMPv3)", RFC 2574, April 1999.

   [13] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M. and S. Waldbusser, "Protocol
        Operations for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management
        Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

   [14] Levi, D., Meyer, P. and B. Stewart, "SNMPv3 Applications", RFC
        2573, April 1999.

   [15] Wijnen, B., Presuhn, R. and K. McCloghrie, "View-based Access
        Control Model (VACM) for the Simple Network Management Protocol
        (SNMP)", RFC 2575, April 1999.

   [18] Estrin, D., Farinacci, D., Helmy, A., Thaler, D., Deering, S.,
        Handley, M., Jacobson, V., Liu, C., Sharma, P. and L. Wei,
        "Protocol Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM): Protocol
        Specification", RFC 2362, June 1998.

   [19] Adams, A., Nicholas, J., Siadak, W., "Protocol Independent 
        Multicast - Dense Mode (PIM-DM): Protocol Specification
        (Revised)", draft-ietf-pim-dm-new-v2-02.txt, work in progress.

   [20] McCloghrie, K., Farinacci, D. and D. Thaler, "IPv4 Multicast
        Routing MIB", RFC 2932, October 2000.

   [21] Fenner, W., Handley, M., Holbrook, H., Kouvelas, I., 
        "Protocol Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM)", draft-
        ietf-pim-sm-v2-new-05.txt, work in progress.

   [22] McCloghrie, K., Farinacci, D., Thaler, D., Fenner, W., 
        "Protocol Independent Multicast MIB for IPv4", RFC 2934,
        October 2000.








Nicholas                                                       [Page 31]

