INTERNET DRAFT                                        Gopal Dommety
Category: Standards Track                             cisco Systems
Title: draft-dommety-mobileip-anchor-handoff-00.txt
March 2000                                              

Expires October 2000

           Local and Indirect Registration for Anchoring Handoffs
                draft-dommety-mobileip-anchor-handoff-00.txt

Status of this Memo

   This document is a submission by the mobile-ip Working Group of the
   Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF).  Comments should be submitted
   to the MOBILE-IP@STANDARDS.NORTELNETWORKS.COM mailing list.

   Distribution of this memo is unlimited.

   This document is an Internet Draft and is in full conformance with
   all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026. Internet Drafts are working
   documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas,
   and working groups. Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet Drafts.

   Internet Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time. It is inappropriate to use Internet Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt.

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

Abstract 

In wide  area deployment,  the handoff latencies  due to  latencies in
Mobile IP registrations,  delay incurred due to setting  up of dynamic
keys, and latencies in setting  up secure Tunnels could be high.  This
document  proposes enchantments  to reduce  the latencies  involved in
such   handoffs.   It  proposes   enhancements  to   facilitate  local
registration, anchoring, and global indirect registration.

1. Introduction

In wide area deployment, the handoff latencies of the current mobileip
could be high. In a mobile  environment, it is very important to limit
the delay experienced  in communication when a mobile  moves from base
station\access point  to another.  This  document proposes enchantments
to  reduce   the  latencies  involved  in  a   handoff.   It  proposes
enhancements to  facilitate local registration,  anchoring, and global
indirect registration.

1.1 Problem Description

Handoff latencies could involve delays due to the following:

	1. Message  Exchange  Between HA  and  FA:  Mobile IP  Message
traversal from FA to  the HA and back.

	2. Establishment of Secure Tunnels between FA and HA: In order
 to secure  traffic destined to/generated  by a mobile,  encryption of
 data is being considered. Typically,  this encryption is will be done
 by setting up  an IP Sec Tunnel using IKE.  Latency in performing IKE
 and creating an IP Sec  Tunnel contributes to the latency experianced
 by the user during handoffs.
  
	3. Establishment of security keys between FA and HA: For the
HA and FA to authenticate each other, a shared key is used to compute
FA-HA AE (Authentication Extension). Also a shared key (a different or
the same as one used for FA-HA AE) might need to be established if IKE
with shared Key is being used to establish IP Sec Tunnel.  These Keys
can be statically configured or dynamically established.  If the Keys
are established dynamically, these keys have to be established before
the handoff can be completed (Keys can be generated using some form of
KDC).  The key generation involves considerable delays during
handoffs.  Another alternative is to use PKI authenticating Mobile IP
entities or during IKE negotiations, this also introduces considerable
delay.  These delays also contribute to the latency experianced by the
user.

It  is  desirable  to  reduce  or  eliminate  these  latencies  during
handoffs.   In  order  to  reduce  or eliminate  the  above  mentioned
latencies,  this draft  proposes Anchoring  of tunnels  at the  old FA
(Anchor FA).   To facilitate  anchoring, this document  introduces two
types  of   registrations  Local  Registration   and  Indirect  Global
Registration.   These mechanisms  can  be used  to  quickly perform  a
handoff and later perform a global registration if required.

2. Overview

2.1 Network Model

The network model being considered is illustrated in Fig 1.

   +----------------------------------+                 +----------------+
   |       	            Visited   |                 |      Home      |
   |                        Network   |   	        |     Network    |
   |                                  |                 |                |
   |  +------+             +-------+  |                 |    +------+    |
   |  |      |             |       |  |                 |    |      |    |
   |  |  MN  |-------------|  FA1  |-------------------------|  HA  |    |
   |  |      |             |       |  |                 |    |      |    |
   |  +------+             +-------+  |                 |    +------+    |
   |                                  |                 |                |
   |			              |                 +----------------+     
   |                       +-------+  |  
   |                       |  FA2  |  |  
   |		           |       |  |
   |                       |       |  |
   |                       +-------+  |  
   +----------------------------------+  

			Fig 1: Network Model

2.2. Mobile IP Registration (referred to as Global Registration in this draft)

The Current  Mobile IP  registration[1] is illustrate  in Fig 2.  It is
referred to as Global Registration.

   +----------------------------------+                 +----------------+
   |       	            Visited   |                 |      Home      |
   |                        Network   |   	        |     Network    |
   |                                  |                 |                |
   |  +------+             +-------+  |                 |    +------+    |
   |  |      |     1       |       |************************ |      |    |
   |  |  MN  |------------>|  FA1  |----------2------------->|  HA  |    |
   |  |      |<------------|       |<---------3--------------|      |    |
   |  +------+     4       +-------+*************************+------+    |
   |                                  |   Secure        |                |
   |			              |   Tunnel        +----------------+     
   |                       +-------+  |  
   |                       |  FA2  |  |  
   |		           |       |  |
   |                       |       |  |
   |                       +-------+  |  
   +----------------------------------+  

			Fig 2. Global Registration

		Messages 1,2: Registration Request
		Messages 3,4: Registration Reply
		

2.3 Local Registration

During the  Global Registration process,  the MN authenticates  to the
HA.  During this process IPsec tunnel could be established between the
HA and FA to secure the users data. It is possible by the use of a KDC
or other mechanisims to establish a shared Key between MN-FA.


After a successful Global Registration, the FA acts as an AnchorFA for
future registrations.  If during  the global registration a shared-key
is established  between MN and  FA or there exists  another mechanisim
(e.g.  using  PKI)  for  the  FA  to  authenticate  the  MN,  a  local
registration  can be  performed  when  the MN  moves  within the  same
domain.   Local  Registration  is  authenticated by  the  AnchorFA  as
illustrated  in Figure  3.  On  successful registration,  a  tunnel is
established between  the AnchorFA  and the New  Visiting FA  to tunnel
packets to and from the Mobile.  Note that the assumption here is that
there is  a mechanisim for the  AnchorFA to authenticate  the MN. This
solution mandates a Shared Key between every two FAs in a domain.

By performing Local Registration latencies due to components 1, 2 and 3
described in Section 1.1 are avoided.


   +----------------------------------+                 +----------------+
   |       	            Visited   |                 |      Home      |
   |                        Network   |   	        |     Network    |
   |                                  |                 |                | 
   |                        Anchor    |                 |                |
   |                       +-------+  |                 |    +------+    |
   |                       |       |*************************|      |    |
   |                       |  FA1  |  |                 |    |  HA  |    |
   |                       |       |*************************|      |    |
   |                       +-------+  | Secure Tunnel   |    +------+    |
   |                         ^  |     |                 |                |
   |			    2| 3|     |                 +----------------+
   |                         |  V     |              
   |  +------+             +-------+  | 
   |  |      |      1      |       |  | 
   |  |  MN  |------------>|  FA2  |  |
   |  |      |<------------|       |  |
   |  +------+      4      +-------+  |
   +----------------------------------+  


			Fig 3: Local Registration

		Messages 1,2: Registration Request
		Messages 3,4: Registration Reply

2.4 Global Indirect Registration

If there does not exist a  direct way for the AnchorFA to authenticate
the MN (For Example, a Shared  Key between the MN and AnchorFA was not
established), an  Indirect Global Registration as illustrated  in Fig 4
can be  performed to  avoid the  latencies due to  components 2  and 3
mentioned in Section 1.1.


   +----------------------------------+                 +----------------+
   |       	            Visited   |                 |      Home      |
   |                        Network   |   	        |     Network    |
   |                                  |                 |                | 
   |                        Anchor    |                 |                |
   |                       +-------+  |                 |    +------+    |
   |                       |       |************************ |      |    |
   |                       |  FA1  |----------3------------->|  HA  |    |
   |                       |       |<---------4--------------|      |    |
   |                       +-------+************************ +------+    |
   |                         ^  |     |Secure Tunnel    |                |
   |			    2|  |5    |                 +----------------+
   |                         |  V     |              
   |  +------+             +-------+  | 
   |  |      |      1      |       |  | 
   |  |  MN  |------------>|  FA2  |  |
   |  |      |<------------|       |  |
   |  +------+      6      +-------+  |
   +----------------------------------+  



	   	     Fig 4: Global Indirect Registration

		Messages 1,2,3: Registration Request
		Messages 4,5,6: Registration Reply

3. Extensions 

3.1 Anchor Advertisement Extension 

   This section defines a new extension to the Router Discovery
   Protocol [2] for use by foreign  agents in a domain to advertise the 
   Zone ID to which the FA belongs to. The Zone ID Information is used by 
   Mobile (MN) to determine if it has changed Zones.

       0                   1                   2                   3
       0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |     Type      |    Length     |     Reg-Type  |  Zone ID ...
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+


                   Figure 5: Anchor Advertisement Extension 

      Type        TDB (To be assigned by IANA)

      Length      Length in bytes of this extension, not including the
                  Type and Length bytes.

      Reg-Type	
		GLOBAL_REG 0x0
		LOCAL_REG  0x1
		GLOBAL_INDIRECT_REG 0x2

      Zone ID     A Globally unique value used to identify the Zone. 


   If an FA has a Zone ID in the IRDP message, then it MUST support at 
   least one of local registration or Indirect Global registration. 


3.2 Anchor Registration Extension 

       0                   1                   2                   3
       0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |     Type      |    Length     | Reg-Type      |    Resrvd     |   
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |                     AnchorFA Address                          |
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |                            FA Address                         |
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |                         Zone ID.........
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

			Figure 6: Anchor Registration Extension 
       	  
   Type       TDB (To be assigned by IANA).

   Length     Length in bytes of this extension, not including the
              Type and Length bytes.

   Reg-Type
	     	GLOBAL_REG 0x0
		LOCAL_REG  0x1
		GLOBAL_INDIRECT_REG 0x2

   Resrvd      Currently set to 0. To be used for future enhancements.

   Zone ID     A Globally unique value used to identify the Zone.


3.3 Authentication Extensions

	The procedures described in this document require two new
authentication extensions, FA-AnchorFA Authentication Extension and
MN-AnchorFA Authentication Extension.  Generalized Mobile IP
Authentication Extension as defined in [3] is as follows:

         0                   1                   2                   3
       0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |     Type      |    Subtype    |            Length             |
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |                              SPI                              |
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |                         Authenticator ...
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+


      Figure 7: The Generalized Mobile IP Authentication Extension


      Type            36 (not skippable) (see [1])

      Subtype         a number assigned to identify the kind of
                      endpoints or characteristics of the particular
                      authentication strategy

      Length          4 plus the number of bytes in the Authenticator;
                      MUST be at least 20.

      SPI             Security Parameters Index

      Authenticator   The variable length Authenticator field

   In this document, two subtypes are defined:

	2 (TDB)		FA-AnchorFA Authentication Extension
	3 (TD) 		MN-AnchorFA Authentication Extension


4. Processing Considerations

4.1 Initial Registration

The Initial registration when a MN enter a different Zone, it preforms
a  registration   as  specified  in  RFC 2002[1](referred   to  as  Global
Registration).   Additional  in order  to  perform  Local or  Indirect
registration in  the future  Foreign Agent CoA  option should  be used
[1]. The MN  remembers the FA (to be used as  the AnchorFA) and
the Zone ID, and the lifetime (also referred to as global registration
lifetime)

4.2 Local Registration

Local  registration is  illustrated in  Fig 3.  This section  give the
details of processing by the mobile IP entities.

4.2.1 MN processing

The MN is allowed to perform  a Local Registration if it has previously
performed  a Global Registration  with a  FA in  the current  Zone and
global  lifetime that  was granted  has not  expired. The  MN  sends a
Mobile IP registration to the FA with the following fields:


	-Lifetime is  set to the  lesser of the remaining  lifetime of
the last global registration and the one advertised by this FA.

	-Currently only timestamp-based  reply protection is supported
and timestamp-based replay protection  is followed as specified in RFC
2002.

	-CoA field set to the address  of the FA or Collocated CoA and
sets the D bit appropriately.   Home Agent and Home Address fields are
set according to RFC 2002 [1].

	-MN-AnchorFA AE (Authentication Extension) is mandatory and is
         used in place of MN-HA AE.

	-Anchor   Registration  Extension   is  included   before  the
MH-AnchorFA AE. The Reg_Type field is set to LOCAL_REG. Other Fields are
set appropriately.


4.2.2 FA processing

FA on  receipt of the Registration  Request from the  MN processes the
Request as Specified in RFC 2002[1] and additionally:

	1. Checks  the Zone  ID: If  it does  not match  its  Zone ID,
Registration Reject with  error code of INVALID_ZONEID is  sent to the
Mobile.
	2. Check for Unsupported Registration  Type Request. If the MN
requests a Registration Type not  advertised by the FA, a registration
reject with UNSUPPORTED_REG_TYPE is sent to the Mobile.

        3. For Local Registration FA-AnchorFA AE is Mandatory. It is
computed in place of the FA-HA AE.

        4. Sends the Registration Message  to AnchorFA (instead of HA
as in a Global Registration [1] ).

On receiving  a successful Registration  Reply from the AnchorFA, if
the MN is  using Foreign Agent CoA, the  appropriate tunnel is created
to the AnchorFA (instead of to HA as in the Global Registration). The
FA also  updates the lifetime  as specified in  RFC 2002[1]. In case  of a
Registration  Reject  the  FA  performs processing  as  specified  in
RFC 2002[1]  and  also  relays  the  error  codes  for  INVALID_ZONEID  and
UNSUPPORTED_REG_TYPE.

4.2.3 AnchorFA processing

AnchorFA on receipt of the Registration Request from the FA processes
the Request as a HA as specified in RFC 2002[1] and additionally:

	1. Checks  the Zone  ID: If  it does  not match  its  Zone ID,
Registration Reject with  error code of INVALID_ZONEID is  sent to the
FA.
	2. Check for Unsupported Registration  Type Request. If the MN
requests a Registration Type not supported, a registration reject with
UNSUPPORTED_REG_TYPE is sent to the FA.

	3. If FA-AnchorFA AE  is missing or fails authentication then
Registration Reject is sent to the FA with an FA_FAILED_AUTHENTICATION
Code.

	4. If  MN-AnchorFA AE  is missing  or fails  authentication then
Registration is Rejected with MN_FAILED_AUTHNETICATION Code.


	5. Registration  Lifetime requested  has to  be less  than the
remaining global registration  lifetime, other  wise the  lifetime is
field is updated to the remaining global registration lifetime.

	6. If the MN has  not previously performed global registration
with  the AnchorFA with  global registered  lifetime  remaining, the
registration is rejected with MN_UNKNOWN error code.

On successful registration, the AnchorFA sends a registration reply.
The reply is formed similar to how a HA would [1]. Additionally:

	1. Anchor  Registration  Extension   is  included  before  the
MN-AnchorFA AE. This extension is copied from the Registration Request.

	2. Lifetime  field is  set to  be lesser  of the  the remaining
global registration  lifetime, the  requested value, and  a configured
value (for providing the option of forcing global registration within a 
given time).

        3. For Registration Reply  in a Local Registration, FA-AnchorFA
AE is Mandatory. It is computed in place of the FA-HA AE [1].

	4. MN-AnchorFA AE is mandatory  and is used in place of MN-HA
AE [1].

On successful registration the  AnchorFA creates an appropriate tunnel
to  the  CoA and  sets  up routing  such  that  datagrams that  arrive
destined to  this mobile from HA-AnchorFA tunnel is  tunneled to the
via the  AnchorFA-FA tunnel.   If reverse tunneling  is set,  then the
datagrams that come from the FA-AnchorFA tunnel and generated by this
mobile  (source address  of the  Mobile) are  tunneled to  the  HA.


4.3 Global Indirect Registration

Global Indirect Registration is illustrated in Fig 4.  This section
give the details of processing by the mobile IP entities.

4.3.1 MN processing

The MN is  allowed to perform a Global Indirect  Registration if it has
previously performed  a Global Registration  with a FA in  the current
Zone.   The registration  request  considerations are  similar to  the
considerations  in the  case of  Local Registrations.  The differences
with the Local Registrations are as follows:

- Only  Foreign  Agent  CoA  option  is  valid  with  Global  Indirect
Registration.  and CoA is set to AnchorFA.

- MN-HA AE is mandatory

- AnchorFA-MN Authentication Extension is optional

- Lifetime is chosen a recommended in RFC 2002 [1].

- Both timestamp-based and nonce based reply protection is supported.

-Anchor   Registration  Extension   is  included   before  the
MN-AnchorFA AE. The Reg_Type field is set to GLOBAL_INDIRECT_REG.


4.3.2 FA processing

The  processing performed  is similar  to the  processing  done during
Local  Registration. Note  that in  this case  only Foreign  Agent CoA
option  is chosen  and  the AnchorFA  is  set as  the  CoA.  In  this
registration option the also AnchorFA-FA AE is mandatory.


4.3.3 AnchorFA processing

AnchorFA on receipt of the Registration Request from the FA processes
the Request as a FA would process according to RFC 2002 [1] and additionally:

	1. Checks  the Zone  ID: If  it does  not match  its  Zone ID,
Registration Reject with  error code of INVALID_ZONEID is  sent to the
FA.
	2. Check for Unsupported Registration  Type Request. If the MN
requests a Registration Type not supported, a registration reject with
UNSUPPORTED_REG_TYPE is sent to the FA.

	3. If FA-AnchorFA AE  is missing or fails authentication then
Registration Reject is sent to the FA with an FA_FAILED_AUTHENTICATION
Code.

	4. MN-AnchorFA  AE  is  optional  and if  present  and  fails
authentication     then     Registration     is     Rejected     with
MN_FAILED_AUTHNETICATION Code.

	5. If the MN has  not previously performed global registration
with  the AnchorFA with  global registered  lifetime  remaining, the
registration is rejected with MN_UNKNOWN error code.

If the  Registration Request is not denied  it is sent to  the HA with
the following:

	1. FA-HA AE can be used optionally

On receipt  of a registration  reply. If the registration  is rejected
the  reject is  relayed  with mandatory  AnchorFA-FA  AE and  optional
MN-AnchorFA AE. 

If   registration was accepted by the HA, the Anchor updates the Global Registration lifetime for this mobile and ,sends  a  registration
reply.  The  reply  is  relayed to the FA with the following additions:

	1. Anchor  Registration  Extension   is  included  before  the
FA-AnchorFA AE. This extension is copied from the Registration Request.

	2. HA_FA AE  in the  reply message from  the HA if  present is
authenticated and removed.

        3. FA-AnchorFA AE is Mandatory. It is computed in place of the
FA-HA AE [1].

	4. MN-AnchorFA AE is optional.

On successful registration the  AnchorFA creates an appropriate tunnel
to  the  CoA and  sets  up routing  such  that  datagrams that  arrive
destined to  this mobile from HA-AnchorFA tunnel is  tunneled to the
via the  AnchorFA-FA tunnel.   If reverse tunneling  is set,  then the
datagrams that come from the FA-AnchorFA tunnel and generated by this
mobile  (source address  of the  Mobile) are  tunneled to  the  HA.

4.3.4 HA processing

	Does regular HA processing.

5. Error Codes

The Following error codes are to be defined:
	INVALID_ZONEID  TBD 
	UNSUPPORTED_REG_TYPE  TBD 
	MN_UNKNOWN TBD


6. Intellectual Property Right Notice

 Cisco may have IPR on material contained in this draft.  Upon
 approval by the IESG of the relevant Internet standards track
 specification and if any patents issue to Cisco or its subsidiaries
 with claims that are necessary for practicing this standard, any
 party will be able to obtain the right to implement, use and
 distribute the technology or works when implementing, using or
 distributing technology based upon the specific specification(s)
 under openly specified, reasonable, non-discriminatory terms.

7. IANA Considerations

The Anchor Registration Extension defined  in Section 3.2 is Mobile IP
registration extension as defined in RFC 2002 [1].  IANA should
assign a Type value consistent with this number space. 

The Mobile IP Anchor Advertisement extension defined in section 3.1 is
taken  from  the  numbering  space  defined for  Mobile  IP  [1]
extensions to the ICMP Router Advertisements [2].  The numbers, 36 and
132, for the Generalized Authentication extension
 
The Code values defined in Section 5 are error codes as defined in
RFC 2002 [1].  IANA should assign values to these codes consistent
with this number space.

A new  number space is being  created for enumerating  subtypes of the
Generalized  Authentication  extension [3].   The  AnchorFA-FA AE  and
AnchorFA-MN AE Subtypes are to be taken from this numbering space.

8. Acknowledgments

   The  author  would  like  to   thank  Kent  Leung  for  his 
suggestions and helpful discussion.

9. References

  [1] C. Perkins.  IP Mobility Support.  Request for Comments
        (Proposed Standard) 2002, Internet Engineering Task Force,
        October 1996.

  [2] S. Deering.  ICMP Router Discovery Messages.  Request for
        Comments (Proposed Standard) 1256, Internet Engineering Task
        Force, September 1991.

  [3] P. Calhoun and C. E. Perkins.  Mobile IP Foreign Agent
       Challenge/Response Extension. 
       draft-ietf-mobileip-challenge-09.txt, Feb 2000.  (work in
       progress).

  [4] Eva Gustafsson, et. al.  Mobile IP Regional Tunnel Management.
      draft-ietf-mobileip-reg-tunnel-01.txt, August 1999.

  [5] K. El Malki, et. al.  Fast Handoff Method for Real-Time Traffic 
      over Scaleable Mobile IP Networks.
      draft-elmalki-mobileip-fast-handoffs-01.txt, June 1999.



Dommety                                                 [Page 4]

Internet Draft   

Author Information

   Gopal Dommety
   Cisco Systems, Inc.
   170 West Tasman Drive
   San Jose, CA 95134
   e-mail: gdommety@cisco.com

Dommety  Local and Indirect Registration for Anchoring Handoffs March 2000

Appendix

The following enhancements will be considered in the future:

1. Option of Forcing Global Registration
	Perform Global Registration Immediately
	Perform Global Registration Next time.

2. Buffering issues during handoffs
3. Simultaneous Bindings at HA and AnchorFA
4. Private addressing: For private addressing GRE with Key has to be used.
5. Authorization from HA for performing Local Registrations
6. Overlapping Zones
7. Time  offset  enhancement extensions  -This  gives  a  hint of  the
time offset  between the  FA and  the MN  to the  mobile  during global
registration.   This  can be  used  to  successfully  register at  the
AnchorFA for Local Registration.


  0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |     Type      |     Length    |           Reservd             |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                                                               |
   +                         Time Difference                       +
   |                                                               |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 













