IPSEC Working Group                                          Baiju Patel
INTERNET-DRAFT                                                     Intel
Category: Standards Track                                  Bernard Aboba
<draft-ietf-ipsec-dhcp-03.txt>                                 Microsoft
                                                             Scott Kelly
                                                 RedCreek Communications
                                                             Vipul Gupta
                                                  Sun Microsystems, Inc.

                DHCP Configuration of IPSEC Tunnel Mode

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.  Internet-
Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months and may be
updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any time.  It is
inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material or to cite
them other than as "work in progress."

     The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
     http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

     The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
     http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

The distribution of this memo is unlimited.  It is filed as <draft-ietf-
ipsec-dhcp-03.txt>, and expires May 1, 2000. Please send comments to the
authors.

1.  Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1999).  All Rights Reserved.

2.  Abstract

In many remote access scenarios, a mechanism for making the remote host
appear to be present on the local corporate network is quite useful.
This may be accomplished by assigning the host a "virtual" address from
the corporate network, and then tunneling traffic via Ipsec from the
host's ISP-assigned address to the corporate security gateway. The
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) provides for such remote host
configuration. This draft explores the requirements for host
configuration in IPSEC tunnel mode, and describes how the DHCP protocol
may be leveraged for configuration in this case.

Patel, Aboba, Kelly & Gupta  Standards Track                    [Page 1]

INTERNET-DRAFT   DHCP Configuration of IPSEC Tunnel Mode 19 October 1999

3.  Introduction

In many remote access scenarios, a mechanism for making the remote host
appear to be present on the local corporate network is quite useful.
This may be accomplished by assigning the host a "virtual" address from
the corporate network, and then tunneling traffic via Ipsec from the
host's ISP-assigned address to the corporate security gateway. The
Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) provides for such remote host
configuration. This draft explores the requirements for host
configuration in IPSEC tunnel mode, and describes how the DHCP protocol
may be leveraged for configuration in this case.

3.1.  Terminology

This document uses the following terms:

DHCP client
          A DHCP client or "client" is an Internet host using DHCP to
          obtain configuration parameters such as a network address.

DHCP server
          A DHCP server or "server" is an Internet host that returns
          configuration parameters to DHCP clients.

3.2.  Requirements language

In this document, the key words "MAY", "MUST,  "MUST  NOT",  "optional",
"recommended",  "SHOULD",  and  "SHOULD  NOT",  are to be interpreted as
described in [1].

Please note that the requirements specified in this document are to be
used in evaluating protocol submissions.  As such, the requirements
language refers to capabilities of these protocols; the protocol
documents will specify whether these features are required, recommended,
or optional.  For example, requiring that a protocol support
confidentiality is NOT the same thing as requiring that all protocol
traffic be encrypted.

A protocol submission is not compliant if it fails to satisfy one or
more of the MUST or MUST NOT requirements for the capabilities that it
implements.  A protocol submission that satisfies all the MUST, MUST
NOT, SHOULD and SHOULD NOT requirements for its capabilities is said to
be "unconditionally compliant"; one that satisfies all the MUST and MUST
NOT requirements but not all the SHOULD or SHOULD NOT requirements for
its protocols is said to be "conditionally compliant."

Patel, Aboba, Kelly & Gupta  Standards Track                    [Page 2]

INTERNET-DRAFT   DHCP Configuration of IPSEC Tunnel Mode 19 October 1999

3.3.  Configuration requirements for IPSEC tunnel mode

The configuration requirements of a host with an IPSEC tunnel mode
interface are similar to those of a host needing to configure any other
kind of interface. These include the need:

   1. to obtain an IP address and other configuration parameters
      appropriate to the class of host
   2. to reconfigure when required
   3. to authenticate where required
   4. to support address pool management
   5. to support failover
   6. to integrate with existing IP address management
      facilities such as DHCP
   7. to maintain security and simplicity in the IKE implementation.

A configuration facility for IPSEC tunnel mode MUST provide for both IP
address assignment as well as configuration for a wide variety of
parameters, such as those supported in DHCP [3]. Note that rich
configuration facilities have already proved necessary in wide variety
of cases outside of conventional LAN configuration.  For example, in the
case of PPP, IPCP, described in [4], was used to provide for IP address
assignment. However, it was found that additional configuration
parameters were necessary, so that non-standard extensions, described in
[7] were developed. Rather than continuing down the road towards
duplicating existing DHCP functionality, it was decided that it would be
preferable to support DHCPINFORM capabilities, described in [3].

A configuration facility for IPSEC tunnel MUST support the concept of a
configuration lease, and SHOULD support the ability to force
reconfiguration of the client, in a manner such as that described in
[14]. Configuration leases permit recovery of unused IP address space,
and therefore result in more optimal use of addresses. The ability to
force reconfiguration of the client can be useful in a number of
circumstances, such as renumbering.

A configuration facility for IPSEC tunnel mode MUST support
authentication of the configuration conversation.  As noted in [6], a
number of security threats exist in IP address management, and so
authentication may be desirable in order to mitigate these threats.
Alternatively, it may be desirable to bind an IP address to a user or
machine ID for the purposes of supporting policy-based networking. Note
that the need for authentication is particularly strong where forced
reconfiguration is supported.  Where DHCP authentication is implemented
for these purposes, IPSEC tunnel mode addressing SHOULD be integrated
with DHCP authentication so as to permit universal coverage.

Patel, Aboba, Kelly & Gupta  Standards Track                    [Page 3]

INTERNET-DRAFT   DHCP Configuration of IPSEC Tunnel Mode 19 October 1999

A configuration facility for IPSEC tunnel mode SHOULD provide the
ability to obtain an IP address within the appropriate address pool.
Today it is common to use distinct address pools for the purposes of
service differentiation, and therefore the ability to obtain an address
from the appropriate pool may be critical to the operation of the
network.

A configuration facility for IPSEC tunnel mode MUST NOT compromise the
ability to provide for failover capabilities either in terms of IP
address management, or IPSEC itself.  With network services increasingly
operating like utilities requiring minimization of downtime, interest is
rising in failover capabilities, such as those described in [8].  The
addition of addressing or configuration state to an IPSEC tunnel mode
security association may complicate the provisioning of failover
capabilities in a number of ways.

Firstly, addition of addressing and configuration state adds to the size
of the security association database, thereby complicating the
replication of this state between servers where it is desired to provide
failover capability.  Secondly, with enterprise customers increasingly
investing in IP address management systems with failover capabilities,
creating additional pockets of addressing state creates the the need to
provide those additional pockets with failover capabilities equivalent
to those provided in DHCP failover.

A configuration facility for IPSEC tunnel mode MUST NOT compromise the
simplicity or security of IKE, described in [12].  Since IKE is a key
element of the Internet security architecture, it is critical to
maintain interoperability as well as the ability to predict and analyze
the behavior of implementations.

3.4.  Requirements evaluation

Leveraging DHCP for the configuration of IPSEC tunnel mode satisfies the
requirements outlined above. Since DHCP already provides for rich
configuration capabilities, it is possible to utilize these facilities
in configuring IPSEC tunnel mode interfaces. Where DHCP authentication
is required, this can be supported on an IPSEC tunnel mode interface as
it would be on any other interface. When leveraging DHCP, it is possible
to reuse existing address pool assignment facilities so that
compatibility and integration with existing addressing implementations
and IP address management software is assured. In addition, DHCP
supports the concept of configuration leases, and there is a proposal
for handling forced reconfiguration [14].

Since when leveraging DHCP, configuration and addressing state is kept
on the DHCP server, not within the IKE implementation, it is easier to
support failover. Leveraging DHCP also makes it easier to maintain

Patel, Aboba, Kelly & Gupta  Standards Track                    [Page 4]

INTERNET-DRAFT   DHCP Configuration of IPSEC Tunnel Mode 19 October 1999

security in the IKE implementation.

In contrast, alternatives to DHCP, such as IKECFG, described in [13], do
not meet the requirements. While IKECFG can provide for IP address
assignment as well as configuration of a few additional parameters, the
rich configuration facilities of DHCP are not supported. Past experience
with PPP IPCP leads to the conclusion that eventually it will either be
necessary to duplicate much of the functionality of the DHCP protocol,
or support for DHCPINFORM will be required.

While IKECFG can support mutual authentication of the IPSEC tunnel
endpoints, it is difficult to integrate IKECFG with DHCP authentication.
This is because the IPSEC tunnel server will not typically have access
to the client credentials necessary to sign the DHCP authentication
option on the client's behalf.  Furthermore, IKECFG does not currently
support the functionality necessary for the IPSEC tunnel mode server to
issue an authenticated DHCP request on the client's behalf.

Similarly, IKECFG does not provide a mechanism for the client to
indicate a preference for a particular address pool. This makes it
difficult for the ISPEC tunnel mode server to ensure that the client
receives an IP address assignment from the appropriate address pool.

Since IKECFG creates a separate pool of address state, it complicates
the provisioning of network utility-class reliability, both in the IP
address management system and in the IPSEC tunnel mode servers
themselves. Since IKECFG is not integrated with existing IP address
management facilities, it is difficult to integrate this with policy
management services that may be dependent on the user to IP address
binding.

Finally, as past history with PPP IPCP demonstrates, once it is decided
to provide non-integrated address management and configuration
facilities within IKE, it will be difficult to limit the duplication of
effort to address assignment. Instead, it will be tempting to also
duplicate the configuration, authentication and failover facilities of
DHCP. This duplication will greatly increase the scope of work,
eventually compromising the security of IKE.

As a result of this requirements evaluation, it is apparent that
leveraging DHCP for configuration of IPSEC tunnel mode is the superior
alternative.  As a result, this document describes how DHCP may be
leveraged to provide for configuration of IPSEC tunnel mode clients. No
modifications to DHCP are required in order to accomplish this.

Patel, Aboba, Kelly & Gupta  Standards Track                    [Page 5]

INTERNET-DRAFT   DHCP Configuration of IPSEC Tunnel Mode 19 October 1999

4.  Scenario overview

IPSEC [2], [9]-[12] is a protocol suite defined to secure communication
at the network layer between communicating peers. Among many
applications enabled by IPSEC, a useful application is to connect a
remote host to a corporate intranet via a VPN server, using IPSEC tunnel
mode.  This host is then configured in such a manner so as to provide it
with a virutal presence on the internal network. This is accomplished in
the following manner:

A remote host on the Internet will connect to the VPN server and then
establish an IPSEC tunnel to it.

The remote host then interacts via the IPSEC tunnel with an agent which
provides the remote host with an address from the corporate network
address space. The remote host subsequently uses this as the source
address for all interactions with corporate resources. Note that this
implies that the corporate security gateway continues to recognize the
host's original, routable IP address as the tunnel endpoint. The virtual
identity assumed by the remote host when using the assigned address
appears to the corporate network as though it were situated behind a
security gateway bearing the original routable IP address. All the
traffic between the remote host and the intranet will be carried over
the IPSEC tunnel via the VPN server as shown below.

                                       corporate net
 +------------------+                      |
 |    externally    |        +--------+    |   !~~~~~~~~~~!
 |+-------+ visible |        |        |    |   ! rmt host !
 ||virtual| host    |        |security|    |---! virtual  !
 || host  |         |--------|gateway/|    |   ! presence !
 ||       |<================>|  DHCP  |----|   !~~~~~~~~~~!
 |+-------+         |--------| Relay  |    |
 +------------------+   ^    +--------+    |   +--------+
                        |                  |---|  DHCP  |
                      IPsec tunnel         |   | server |
                      with encapsulated    |   +--------+
                      traffic inside

This scenario assumes that the remote host already has Internet
connectivity and the host Internet interface is appropriately
configured. The mechanisms for configuration of the remote host's
address for the Internet interface are well defined; i.e., PPP IP
control protocol (IPCP), described in [4], DHCP, described in [3], and
static addressing. The mechanisms for auto-configuration of the intranet
are also standardized. It is also assumed that the remote host has
knowledge of the location of the VPN server. This can be accomplished
via DNS, using either A, KX, or SRV records.

Patel, Aboba, Kelly & Gupta  Standards Track                    [Page 6]

INTERNET-DRAFT   DHCP Configuration of IPSEC Tunnel Mode 19 October 1999

Since the DHCP server will typically not reside on the same machine as
the VPN server, it is necessary for the VPN server to act as a DHCP
relay, as well as an IPSEC security gateway between the Internet and the
intranet.

A typical configuration of the remote host in this application would use
two addresses: 1) an interface to connect to the Internet (internet
interface), and 2) a virtual interface to connect to the intranet
(intranet interface). The IP address of the Internet and intranet
interfaces are used in the outer and inner headers of the IPSEC tunnel
mode packet, respectively.

4.1.  Configuration walkthrough

The configuration of the intranet interface of the IPSEC tunnel mode
host is accomplished in the following steps:

1) The remote host establishes an IKE security association with
   the VPN server in a main mode or aggressive mode exchange.
   This IKE SA then serves to secure additional quick mode IPSEC SAs.
2) The remote host establishes a DHCP SA with the VPN server in
   a quick mode exchange. The DHCP SA is an IPSEC tunnel mode
   SA established to protect initial DHCP traffic between the
   VPN server and the remote host.
3) DHCP messages are sent back and forth between the remote host
   and the DHCP server, using the VPN server as a DHCP relay.
   This traffic is protected between the remote host and the
   VPN server using the DHCP SA established in step 2. After
   the DHCP conversation completes, the remote hosts's
   intranet interface obtains an IP address as well as other
   configuration parameters.
4) The remote host MAY request deletion of the DHCP SA since
   future DHCP messages will be carried over a new VPN tunnel.
   Alternatively, the remote host and the security gateway
   MAY continue to use the same SA for all subsequent traffic
   by adding temporary SPD selectors in the same manner as is
   provided for name ID types in [2].
5) The remote host establishes a tunnel mode SA to the VPN server
   in a quick mode exchange.

At the end of the last step, the remote host is ready to communicate
with the intranet using an IPSEC tunnel. All the IP traffic (including
future DHCP messages) between the remote host and the intranet are now
tunneled over this VPN SA. Since the security parameters used for
different SAs are based on the unique requirements of the remote host
and the VPN server, they are not described in this document. The
mechanisms described here work best when the VPN is implemented using a
virtual interface.

Patel, Aboba, Kelly & Gupta  Standards Track                    [Page 7]

INTERNET-DRAFT   DHCP Configuration of IPSEC Tunnel Mode 19 October 1999

5.  Detailed description

This section provides details relating to the messages exchanged during
the setup and teardown of the DHCP SAs.

5.1.  Generation of the DHCPDISCOVER message

The events begin with the remote host intranet interface generating a
DHCPDISCOVER message. Details are described below:

   FIELD      OCTETS       DESCRIPTION
   -----      ------       -----------

   op            1  Message op code / message type.
                    1 = BOOTREQUEST, 2 = BOOTREPLY
   htype         1  Hardware address type
   hlen          1  Hardware address length
   hops          1  Client sets to zero, optionally used by relay agents
                    when booting via a relay agent.
   xid           4  Transaction ID, a random number chosen by the
                    client, used by the client and server to associate
                    messages and responses between a client and a
                    server.
   secs          2  Filled in by client, seconds elapsed since client
                    began address acquisition or renewal process.
   flags         2  Flags
   ciaddr        4  Client IP address; only filled in if client is in
                    BOUND, RENEW or REBINDING state.
   yiaddr        4  'your' (client) IP address.
   siaddr        4  IP address of next server to use in bootstrap;
                    returned in DHCPOFFER, DHCPACK by server.
   giaddr        4  VPN server IP address, used in booting via a
                    relay agent.
   chaddr       16  Client hardware address. Should be unique; for
                    example, can be set to the client Internet
                    interface MAC address.
   sname        64  Optional server host name, null terminated string.
   file        128  Boot file name, null terminated string; "generic"
                    name or null in DHCPDISCOVER, fully qualified
                    directory-path name in DHCPOFFER.
   options     var  Optional parameters field.

           Table 1:  Description of fields in the DHCP message

The chaddr field of the DHCPDISCOVER should include a unique identifier.
The client must use the same chaddr field in all subsequent messages of
the same DHCP exchange.  This permits the use of DHCP Relay load
balancing as described in [8].

Patel, Aboba, Kelly & Gupta  Standards Track                    [Page 8]

INTERNET-DRAFT   DHCP Configuration of IPSEC Tunnel Mode 19 October 1999

The DHCP Client Identifier Option SHOULD be used to identify the client,
so that the chaddr field is not used for this purpose. Note that this
option is not interpreted by the VPN server or DHCP server, but is used
by the DHCP relay agent to forward DHCP messages to the appropriate
tunnel.

In order to deliver the DHCPDISCOVER packet from the intranet interface
to the VPN server, an IKE Phase 1 SA is established between the Internet
interface and the VPN server. A phase 2 (quick mode) DHCP SA tunnel mode
SA is then established. The key lifetime for the DHCP SA SHOULD be on
the order of minutes since it will only be temporary. The remote host
SHOULD use an IDci payload of 0.0.0.0/UDP/port 68 in the quick mode
exchange. The tunnel mode server will use an IDcr payload of its own
Internet address/UDP/port 67 The DHCP SA is established as a tunnel mode
SA with filters set as follows:

>From client to server: Any to Any, destination: UDP port 67
>From server to client: Any to Any, destination: UDP port 68

Note that these filters will work not only for a client without
configuration, but also with a client that has previously obtained a
configuration lease, and is attempting to renew it. In the latter case,
the DHCP SA will initially be used to send a DHCPREQUEST rather than a
DHCPDISCOVER message.

The initial DHCP message (DHCPDISCOVER or DHCPREQUEST) is then tunneled
to the VPN server using the tunnel mode SA. Since the VPN server is
acting as a DHCP relay, it will forward the message to one or more
intranet DHCP servers, and will store the client identifier option of
the DHCPDISCOVER message in a table so as to be able to route the
corresponding DHCPOFFER message(s) back to the remote host.

After the Internet interface has received the DHCPOFFER message, it
forwards this to the intranet interface after IPSEC processing. The
intranet interface then responds by creating a DHCPREQUEST message,
which is tunneled to VPN server using the DHCP SA. The DHCP Server than
replies with a DHCPACK or DHCPNAK message, which is forwarded down the
DHCP SA by the VPN server. The remote host Internet interface then
forwards the DHCPACK or DHCPNAK message to the intranet interface after
IPSEC processing.

At this point, the intranet interface is configured and the internet
interface can establish a new IPSEC tunnel mode SA to the VPN server.
The IDci of the quick mode exchange used to establish the new IPSEC
tunnel mode SA should be the address of the intranet interface as
obtained via DHCP.

Patel, Aboba, Kelly & Gupta  Standards Track                    [Page 9]

INTERNET-DRAFT   DHCP Configuration of IPSEC Tunnel Mode 19 October 1999

The remote host may now delete the DHCP tunnel mode SA. All future DHCP
messages sent by the client, including DHCPREQUEST, DHCPINFORM,
DHCPDECLINE, and DHCPRELEASE messages will use the newly established VPN
SA. Similarly, all DHCP messages subsequently sent by the DHCP server
will be forwarded by the VPN server/DHCP relay using the VPN SA,
including DHCPOFFER, DHCPACK, and DHCPNAK messages.

It SHOULD be possible to configure the client to forward all internet-
bound traffic through the tunnel. While this adds overhead to roundtrips
between the client and the internet, it provides some added security in
return for this, in that the corporate security gateway may now filter
traffic as it would if the remote host were physically located on the
corporate network.

5.2.  DHCP considerations

The VPN server needs to keep track of the interfaces over which the DHCP
protocol messages are to be communicated. In order to assist the VPN
server/DHCP relay in accomplishing this, the remote host SHOULD include
the client identifier option in its DHCPDISCOVER message. The client
identifier option MUST be unique; thus the client FQDN may be used or
alternatively, another unique identifier such as the client Internet
interface address concatenated with the interface name, in the form of
an ASCII null terminated string.

6.  References

[1]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
     Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

[2]  Atkinson, R., Kent, S., "Security Architecture for the Internet
     Protocol", RFC 2401, November 1998.

[3]  Droms, R., "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol", RFC 2131, March
     1997.

[4]  McGregor, G., "The PPP Internet Protocol Control Protocol (IPCP)",
     RFC 1332, May 1992.

[5]  Alexander, S., Droms, R., "DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor
     Extensions", RFC 2132, March 1997.

[6]  Droms, R., Arbaugh, W., "Authentication for DHCP Messages",
     Internet draft (work in progress), draft-ietf-dhc-
     authentication-11.txt, June 1999.

Patel, Aboba, Kelly & Gupta  Standards Track                   [Page 10]

INTERNET-DRAFT   DHCP Configuration of IPSEC Tunnel Mode 19 October 1999

[7]  Cobb, S., "PPP Internet Protocol Control Protocol Extensions for
     Name Server Addresses", RFC 1877, December 1995.

[8]  Droms, R., Kinnear, K., Stapp, M., Volz, B., Gonczi, S., Rabil, G.,
     Dooley, M., Kapur, A., "DHCP Failover Protocol", Internet draft
     (work in progress), draft-ietf-dhc-failover-04.txt, June 1999.

[9]  Kent,S., Atkinson, R., "IP Authentication Header", RFC 2402,
     November 1998.

[10] Kent,S., Atkinson, R., "IP Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)",
     RFC 2406, November 1998.

[11] Piper, D., "The Internet IP Security Domain of Interpretation of
     ISAKMP", RFC 2407, November 1998.

[12] Harkins, D., Carrel, D., "The Internet Key Exchange (IKE)", RFC
     2409, November 1998.

[13] Pereira, R., Anand, S., Patel, B., "The ISAKMP Configuration
     Method", Internet draft (work in progress), draft-ietf-ipsec-
     isakmp-mode-cfg-05.txt, August 1999.

[14] De Schrijver, P., T'Joens, Y., "Dynamic host configuration : DHCP
     reconfigure extension", Internet draft (work in progress), draft-
     schrijvp-dhcpv4-reconfigure-00.txt, June 1999.

7.  Security Considerations

This protocol is secured using IPSEC.

8.  IANA Considerations

This draft does not create any new number spaces for IANA
administration.

9.  Acknowledgements

This draft has been enriched by comments from John Richardson and
Prakash Iyer of Intel, Gurdeep Pall and Peter Ford of Microsoft.

10.  Authors' Addresses

Baiju V. Patel
Intel Corp, JF3-206
2511 NE 25th Ave
Hillsboro, OR 97124

Patel, Aboba, Kelly & Gupta  Standards Track                   [Page 11]

INTERNET-DRAFT   DHCP Configuration of IPSEC Tunnel Mode 19 October 1999

Phone: +1 (503) 264-2422
EMail: baiju.v.patel@intel.com

Bernard Aboba
Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA 98052

Phone: +1 (425) 936-6605
EMail: bernarda@microsoft.com

Scott Kelly
RedCreek Communications
3900 Newpark Mall Road
Newark, CA 94560

Phone: +1 (510) 745-3969
Email: skelly@redcreek.com

Vipul Gupta
Sun Microsystems, Inc.
901 San Antonio Rd.
Palo Alto, CA 94303

Phone: +1 (650) 786 3614
Fax: +1 (650) 786 6445
EMail: vipul.gupta@eng.sun.com

11.  Intellectual Property Statement

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed to  pertain
to the implementation or use of the technology described in this
document or the extent to which any license under such rights might or
might not be available; neither does it represent that it has made any
effort to identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's
procedures with respect to rights in standards-track and standards-
related documentation can be found in BCP-11.  Copies of claims of
rights made available for publication and any assurances of licenses to
be made available, or the result of an attempt made to obtain a general
license or permission for the use of such proprietary rights by
implementors or users of this specification can be obtained from the
IETF Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights
which may cover technology that may be required to practice this
standard.  Please address the information to the IETF Executive

Patel, Aboba, Kelly & Gupta  Standards Track                   [Page 12]

INTERNET-DRAFT   DHCP Configuration of IPSEC Tunnel Mode 19 October 1999

Director.

12.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1999).  All Rights Reserved.
This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implmentation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.  The limited permissions granted above are
perpetual and will not be revoked by the Internet Society or its
successors or assigns.  This document and the information contained
herein is provided on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE
INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."

13.  Expiration Date

This memo is filed as <draft-ietf-ipsec-dhcp-03.txt>,  and  expires May
1, 2000.

Patel, Aboba, Kelly & Gupta  Standards Track                   [Page 13]
