



Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


               RSVP Management Information Base
                  draft-ietf-rsvp-mib-02.txt

                 Fri Jun 14 15:30:52 PDT 1996


                          Fred Baker

                        Cisco Systems
                        519 Lado Drive
               Santa Barbara, California 93111

                        fred@cisco.com


                        John Krawczyk

                      Bay Networks, Inc
                       2 Federal Street
                Billerica, Massachusetts 01821

                      jj@BayNetworks.com






1.  Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet Draft.  Internet Drafts are
working documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force
(IETF), its Areas, and its Working Groups. Note that other
groups may also distribute working documents as Internet
Drafts.

Internet Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
months. Internet Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted
by other documents at any time.  It is not appropriate to use
Internet Drafts as reference material or to cite them other
than as a "working draft" or "work in progress."

Please check the I-D abstract listing contained in each
Internet Draft directory to learn the current status of this
or any other Internet Draft.





Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996            [Page 1]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


2.  Abstract

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base
(MIB) for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-
based internets.  In particular, it defines objects for
managing the Resource Reservation Protocol (RSVP) within the
interface attributes defined in the Integrated Services Model.
Thus, the Integrated Services MIB is directly relevant to and
cross-referenced by this MIB.  Comments should be made to the
RSVP Working Group, rsvp@isi.edu.

This memo does not, in its draft form, specify a standard for
the Internet community.





































Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996            [Page 2]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


3.  The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework

The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework consists of four major
components.  They are:

o    RFC 1441 which defines the SMI, the mechanisms used for
     describing and naming objects for the purpose of
     management.

o    RFC 1213 defines MIB-II, the core set of managed objects
     for the Internet suite of protocols.

o    RFC 1445 which defines the administrative and other
     architectural aspects of the framework.

o    RFC 1448 which defines the protocol used for network
     access to managed objects.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the
purpose of experimentation and evaluation.


3.1.  Object Definitions

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store,
termed the Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the
MIB are defined using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation
One (ASN.1) defined in the SMI.  In particular, each object
type is named by an OBJECT IDENTIFIER, an administratively
assigned name.  The object type together with an object
instance serves to uniquely identify a specific instantiation
of the object.  For human convenience, we often use a textual
string, termed the descriptor, to refer to the object type.


4.  Overview

4.1.  Textual Conventions

Several new data types are introduced as a textual convention
in this MIB document.  These textual conventions enhance the
readability of the specification and can ease comparison with
other specifications if appropriate.  It should be noted that
the introduction of the these textual conventions has no
effect on either the syntax nor the semantics of any managed





Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996            [Page 3]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


objects.  The use of these is merely an artifact of the
explanatory method used.  Objects defined in terms of one of
these methods are always encoded by means of the rules that
define the primitive type.  Hence, no changes to the SMI or
the SNMP are necessary to accommodate these textual
conventions which are adopted merely for the convenience of
readers and writers in pursuit of the elusive goal of clear,
concise, and unambiguous MIB documents.

4.2.  Structure of MIB

The MIB is composed of the following sections:
     General Objects
     Session Statistics Table
     Session Sender Table
     Reservation Requests Received Table
     Reservation Requests Forwarded Table
     RSVP Active Flows Table
     RSVP Interface Attributes Table
     RSVP Neighbor Table

As a general rule, it is difficult in SNMP to describe
arbitrarily long of complex messages; this MIB therefore seeks
to describe the Path State Database and the Reservation State
Database as though each flow and filter description received
in an aggregate message had been received in a separate
reservation message.

Thus, if a RESV message is received for session
224.1.2.3+UDP+4455 with two filter/flow spec groups describing
a sender 1.2.3.4 and another sender 1.2.7.8, these two will
show in the MIB as two separate rows: one for
224.1.2.3+UDP+4455 from 1.2.3.4 and the other for
224.1.2.3+UDP+4455 from 1.2.7.8.
















Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996            [Page 4]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


5.  Definitions

RSVP-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

        IMPORTS
                MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, Gauge32, NOTIFICATION-TYPE,
                Integer32, experimental             FROM SNMPv2-SMI

                TEXTUAL-CONVENTION, TruthValue, RowStatus, TimeStamp,
                TestAndIncr, TimeInterval           FROM SNMPv2-TC

                MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP     FROM SNMPv2-CONF
                BitRate, BurstSize                  FROM INTEGRATED-SERVICES-MIB
                ifIndex, InterfaceIndex             FROM IF-MIB;


    rsvp MODULE-IDENTITY
            LAST-UPDATED "9511030500Z" -- Fri Jun 14 15:30:52 PDT 1996
            ORGANIZATION "IETF RSVP Working Group"
            CONTACT-INFO
           "       Fred Baker
           Postal: Cisco Systems
                   519 Lado Drive
                   Santa Barbara, California 93111
           Tel:    +1 805 681 0115
           E-Mail: fred@cisco.com

                   John Krawczyk
           Postal: Bay Networks, Inc
                   2 Federal Street
                   Billerica, Massachusetts 01821
           Tel:    +1 508 436 3811
           E-Mail: jj@BayNetworks.com"
       DESCRIPTION
          "The MIB module to describe  the  RSVP  and  In-
          tegrated Services Protocol"
      ::= { experimental 71 }

  rsvpObjects         OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { rsvp 1 } -- tables
  rsvpGenObjects      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { rsvp 2 } -- global objects
  rsvpNotifications   OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { rsvp 3 } -- traps
  rsvpConformance     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { rsvp 4 } -- conformance








Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996            [Page 5]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    SessionNumber ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Session  Number  convention  is  used  for
           numbers  identifying  sessions or saved PATH or
           RESV information. It is a number in  the  range
           returned  by  a TestAndIncr variable, having no
           protocol meaning whatsoever but serving instead
           as simple identifier.

           The alternative was a very complex instance  or
           instance object that became unwieldy."
       SYNTAX   INTEGER (0..2147483647)


    Protocol ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
        DISPLAY-HINT "d"
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value of the IP Protocol field  of  an  IP
           Datagram  Header.  This identifies the protocol
           layer above IP.  For example, the  value  6  is
           used  for TCP and the value 17 is used for UDP.
           The values of this field are defined in the As-
           signed Numbers RFC."
       SYNTAX   INTEGER (1..255)


    SessionType ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value of the C-Type field of a Session ob-
           ject,  as  defined  in  the RSVP specification.
           This value  determines  the  lengths  of  octet
           strings  and use of certain objects such as the
           'port' variables. If the C-Type  calls  for  an
           IP6  address, one would expect all source, des-
           tination, and next/previous hop addresses to be
           16  bytes long, and for the ports to be UDP/TCP
           port numbers, for example."
       SYNTAX   INTEGER (1..255)









Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996            [Page 6]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    Port ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
        DISPLAY-HINT "d"
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value of the UDP or TCP Source or Destina-
           tion  Port  field,  IPSEC SPI, or other session
           discriminator.  If it is not  used,  the  value
           should be of length 0.  This pair, when coupled
           with the IP Addresses of the source and  desti-
           nation   system  and  the  IP  protocol  field,
           uniquely identifies a data stream."
       SYNTAX   OCTET STRING


    RsvpEncapsulation ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
         STATUS   current
         DESCRIPTION
           "This indicates the encapsulation that an  RSVP
           Neighbor is perceived to be using."
        SYNTAX   INTEGER {
                   ip (1),   -- IP Protocol 46
                   udp (2),  -- UDP Encapsulation
                   both (3)  -- neighbor is using both encapsulations
                 }


    RefreshInterval ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
         DISPLAY-HINT "d"
         STATUS   current
         DESCRIPTION
           "The number of milliseconds that  are  expected
           to elapse between refreshes of path or reserva-
           tion state.  Unrefreshed  Path  or  reservation
           state is removed after a small multiple of this
           period."
        SYNTAX   INTEGER (0..'7FFFFFFF'h)














Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996            [Page 7]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    QosService ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
         STATUS   current
         DESCRIPTION
           "The class of service in use by a flow."
        SYNTAX   INTEGER {
                   controlledDelay (1),    -- Controlled Delay
                   guaranteedDelay (2),    -- Guaranteed Delay
                   predictiveDelay (3),    -- Predictive Delay
                   controlledLoad (5)      -- Controlled Load
                 }


    DelayClass ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
         DISPLAY-HINT "d"
         STATUS   current
         DESCRIPTION
           "The class of delay used by the Controlled  De-
           lay Service."
        SYNTAX   INTEGER (1..3)


    MessageSize ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
        DISPLAY-HINT "d"
        STATUS   current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The size of a message in bytes. This  is  used
           to  specify  the  minimum and maximum size of a
           message along an integrated services route."
       SYNTAX   INTEGER (0..'7FFFFFFF'h)





















Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996            [Page 8]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


--      The RSVP Session Statistics Database displays statistics
--      relating to the number of senders and receivers in each
--      session.


    rsvpSessionNewIndex OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TestAndIncr
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This  object  is  used  to  assign  values  to
           rsvpSessionNumber as described in 'Textual Con-
           ventions  for  SNMPv2'.   The  network  manager
           reads  the  object,  and  then writes the value
           back in the SET that creates a new instance  of
           rsvpSessionEntry.   If  the  SET fails with the
           code 'inconsistentValue', then the process must
           be  repeated; If the SET succeeds, then the ob-
           ject is incremented, and the  new  instance  is
           created according to the manager's directions."
       ::= { rsvpGenObjects 1 }


    rsvpSessionTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF RsvpSessionEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Statistics concerning the sessions seen  by  a
           given system."
       ::= { rsvpObjects 1 }


    rsvpSessionEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RsvpSessionEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Statistics concerning a  single  RSVP  session
           seen by a given system."
       INDEX { rsvpSessionNumber }
       ::= { rsvpSessionTable 1 }








Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996            [Page 9]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    RsvpSessionEntry ::=
        SEQUENCE {
        rsvpSessionNumber           SessionNumber,
        rsvpSessionType             SessionType,
        rsvpSessionDestAddr         OCTET STRING,
        rsvpSessionProtocol         Protocol,
        rsvpSessionPort             Port,
        rsvpSessionSenders          Gauge32,
        rsvpSessionReceivers        Gauge32,
        rsvpSessionRequests         Gauge32
        }


    rsvpSessionNumber OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SessionNumber
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of this session.  This is for  SNMP
           Indexing  purposes  only and has no relation to
           any protocol vaalue."
       ::= { rsvpSessionEntry 1 }


    rsvpSessionType OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SessionType
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The type of session (IP4, IP6, IP6  with  flow
           information,  etc), and therefore the structure
           of the information."
       ::= { rsvpSessionEntry 2 }


    rsvpSessionDestAddr OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Destination Address used used by  for  all
           senders in this session."
       ::= { rsvpSessionEntry 3 }







Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 10]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpSessionProtocol OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Protocol
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The IP Protocol used by a session."
       ::= { rsvpSessionEntry 4 }


    rsvpSessionPort OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Port
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The UDP or TCP port number used as a  destina-
           tion  port  for  all senders in this session. A
           value of zero indicates that the IP protocol in
           use, specified by rsvpSessionProtocol, does not
           have ports."
       ::= { rsvpSessionEntry 5 }


    rsvpSessionSenders OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Gauge32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of senders currently  known  to  be
           part of this session."
       ::= { rsvpSessionEntry 6 }


    rsvpSessionReceivers OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Gauge32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of reservations being requested  of
           this system for this session."
       ::= { rsvpSessionEntry 7 }










Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 11]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpSessionRequests OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Gauge32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of reservation requests this system
           is sending upstream for this session."
       ::= { rsvpSessionEntry 8 }


-- Note that this is a read only table. If the corresponding
-- rsvpSenderTable, rsvpResvTable, and rsvpReqTable entries all
-- are removed, this entry goes away also.





































Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 12]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


--      The RSVP Session Sender Database contains the information
--      displayed by senders regarding their potential contribution
--      to session data content. It is in essence a list of the
--      valid PATH messages that the RSVP Router or Host is receiving.


    rsvpSenderNewIndex OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TestAndIncr
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This  object  is  used  to  assign  values  to
           rsvpSenderNumber  as described in 'Textual Con-
           ventions  for  SNMPv2'.   The  network  manager
           reads  the  object,  and  then writes the value
           back in the SET that creates a new instance  of
           rsvpSenderEntry.   If  the  SET  fails with the
           code 'inconsistentValue', then the process must
           be  repeated; If the SET succeeds, then the ob-
           ject is incremented, and the  new  instance  is
           created according to the manager's directions."
       ::= { rsvpGenObjects 2 }


    rsvpSenderTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF RsvpSenderEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Information describing the  state  information
           displayed by senders in PATH messages."
       ::= { rsvpObjects 2 }


    rsvpSenderEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RsvpSenderEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Information describing the  state  information
           displayed by a single sender's PATH message."
       INDEX { rsvpSessionNumber, rsvpSenderNumber }
       ::= { rsvpSenderTable 1 }

RsvpSenderEntry ::=





Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 13]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    SEQUENCE {
        rsvpSenderNumber                SessionNumber,
        rsvpSenderType                  SessionType,
        rsvpSenderDestAddr              OCTET STRING,
        rsvpSenderSenderAddr            OCTET STRING,
        rsvpSenderProtocol              Protocol,
        rsvpSenderDestPort              Port,
        rsvpSenderPort                  Port,
        rsvpSenderHopAddr               OCTET STRING,
        rsvpSenderInterface             InterfaceIndex,
        rsvpSenderTSpecRate             BitRate,
        rsvpSenderTSpecPeakRate         BitRate,
        rsvpSenderTSpecBurst            BurstSize,
        rsvpSenderTSpecMinTU            MessageSize,
        rsvpSenderTSpecMaxTU            MessageSize,
        rsvpSenderInterval              RefreshInterval,
        rsvpSenderRSVPHop               TruthValue,
        rsvpSenderLastChange            TimeStamp,
        rsvpSenderPolicy                OCTET STRING,
        rsvpSenderAdspec                OCTET STRING,
        rsvpSenderStatus                RowStatus
    }

    rsvpSenderNumber OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SessionNumber
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of this session.  This is for  SNMP
           Indexing  purposes  only and has no relation to
           any protocol vaalue."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 1 }


    rsvpSenderType OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SessionType
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The type of session (IP4, IP6, IP6  with  flow
           information,  etc), and therefore the structure
           of the information."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 2 }







Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 14]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpSenderDestAddr OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Address used as a destination  address  by
           all senders in this session."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 3 }


    rsvpSenderSenderAddr OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Address used as a source address  by  this
           sender in this session."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 4 }


    rsvpSenderProtocol OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Protocol
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The IP Protocol used by a session. for  secure
           sessions, this indicates IP Security."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 5 }


    rsvpSenderDestPort OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Port
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The UDP or TCP port number used as a  destina-
           tion  port  for  all senders in this session. A
           value of zero indicates that the IP protocol in
           use, specified by rsvpSessionProtocol, does not
           have ports."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 6 }









Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 15]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpSenderPort OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Port
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The UDP or TCP port number used  as  a  source
           port  for  this sender in this session. A value
           of zero indicates that the IP protocol in  use,
           specified by rsvpSessionProtocol, does not have
           ports."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 7 }


    rsvpSenderHopAddr OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The address used  by  the  previous  RSVP  hop
           (which may be the original sender)."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 8 }


    rsvpSenderInterface OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      InterfaceIndex
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The ifIndex value of the  interface  on  which
           this PATH message was most recently received."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 9 }



















Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 16]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpSenderTSpecRate OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      BitRate
        UNITS       "kilobits per second"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Average Bit  Rate  of  the  sender's  data
           stream, in kilobits/second.  Within a transmis-
           sion burst, the arrival rate may be as fast  as
           rsvpSenderTSpecPeakRate  (if  supported  by the
           service model); however, averaged across two or
           more  burst  intervals,  the  rate  should  not
           exceed rsvpSenderTSpecRate.

           Note that this is a prediction, often based  on
           the  general  capability  of a type of codec or
           particular encoding; the measured average  rate
           may be significantly lower."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 10 }


    rsvpSenderTSpecPeakRate OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      BitRate
        UNITS       "kilobits per second"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Peak Bit Rate of the sender's data stream,
           in  kilobits/second. Traffic arrival is not ex-
           pected to exceed this rate at any  time,  apart
           from  the effects of jitter in the network.  If
           not specified in the TSpec, this  returns  zero
           or noSuchValue."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 11 }
















Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 17]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpSenderTSpecBurst OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      BurstSize
        UNITS       "bits"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The size of the largest  burst  expected  from
           the sender at a time."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 12 }


    rsvpSenderTSpecMinTU OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      MessageSize
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The minimum message size for  this  flow.  The
           policing  algorithm will treat smaller messages
           as though they are this size."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 13 }


    rsvpSenderTSpecMaxTU OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      MessageSize
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The maximum message size for  this  flow.  The
           admission  algorithm  will  reject TSpecs whose
           Maximum Transmission Unit, plus  the  interface
           headers, exceed the interface MTU."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 14 }


    rsvpSenderInterval OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RefreshInterval
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The interval between PATH receipt  of  refresh
           messages as advertised by the Previous Hop."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 15 }








Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 18]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpSenderRSVPHop OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TruthValue
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "If TRUE, the node believes that  the  previous
           hop  is  an  RSVP  hop.  If FALSE, the node be-
           lieves that the previous hop may not be an RSVP
           hop."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 16 }


    rsvpSenderLastChange OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TimeStamp
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The time of the last change in this PATH  mes-
           sage; This includes the first time it was sent,
           or time of the most recent  change  in  parame-
           ters."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 17 }


    rsvpSenderPolicy OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The contents of the policy  object,  displayed
           as an uninterpreted string of octets, including
           the object header.  In the absence of  such  an
           object, this should be of zero length."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 18 }
















Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 19]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpSenderAdspec OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The contents of the Advertising  Specification
           object, displayed as an uninterpreted string of
           octets, including the object  header.   In  the
           absence  of  such  an object, this should be of
           zero length."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 19 }


    rsvpSenderStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RowStatus
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "'valid' for all active  PATH  messages.   This
           object  may  be used to install static PATH in-
           formation or delete PATH information."
       ::= { rsvpSenderEntry 20 }




























Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 20]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


--      The RSVP Reservation Requests Received Table contains the
--      information displayed by receivers regarding their needs with
--      respect to sessions and senders. It is in essence a list of the
--      valid RESV messages that the RSVP Router or Host is receiving.


    rsvpResvNewIndex OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TestAndIncr
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This  object  is  used  to  assign  values  to
           rsvpResvNumber as described in 'Textual Conven-
           tions for SNMPv2'.  The network  manager  reads
           the  object,  and then writes the value back in
           the  SET  that  creates  a  new   instance   of
           rsvpResvEntry.   If the SET fails with the code
           'inconsistentValue', then the process  must  be
           repeated;  If the SET succeeds, then the object
           is incremented, and the new instance is created
           according to the manager's directions."
       ::= { rsvpGenObjects 3 }


    rsvpResvTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF RsvpResvEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Information describing the  state  information
           displayed by receivers in RESV messages."
       ::= { rsvpObjects 3 }


    rsvpResvEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RsvpResvEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Information describing the  state  information
           displayed  by  a single receiver's RESV message
           concerning a single sender."
       INDEX { rsvpSessionNumber, rsvpResvNumber }
       ::= { rsvpResvTable 1 }






Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 21]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    RsvpResvEntry ::=
        SEQUENCE {
            rsvpResvNumber          SessionNumber,
            rsvpResvType            SessionType,
            rsvpResvDestAddr        OCTET STRING,
            rsvpResvSenderAddr              OCTET STRING,
            rsvpResvProtocol        Protocol,
            rsvpResvDestPort        Port,
            rsvpResvPort            Port,
            rsvpResvHopAddr         OCTET STRING,
            rsvpResvInterface       InterfaceIndex,
            rsvpResvService         QosService,
            rsvpResvTSpecRate       BitRate,
            rsvpResvTSpecPeakRate   BitRate,
            rsvpResvTSpecBurst      BurstSize,
            rsvpResvTSpecLevel      DelayClass,
            rsvpResvTSpecMinTU      MessageSize,
            rsvpResvTSpecMaxTU      MessageSize,
            rsvpResvInterval        RefreshInterval,
            rsvpResvScope           OCTET STRING,
            rsvpResvShared          TruthValue,
            rsvpResvExplicit        TruthValue,
            rsvpResvRSVPHop         TruthValue,
            rsvpResvLastChange      TimeStamp,
            rsvpResvPolicy          OCTET STRING,
            rsvpResvStatus          RowStatus
        }


    rsvpResvNumber OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SessionNumber
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of this session.  This is for  SNMP
           Indexing  purposes  only and has no relation to
           any protocol vaalue."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 1 }












Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 22]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpResvType OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SessionType
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The type of session (IP4, IP6, IP6  with  flow
           information,  etc), and therefore the structure
           of the information."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 2 }


    rsvpResvDestAddr OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Address used as a destination  address  by
           all senders in this session."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 3 }


    rsvpResvSenderAddr OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Address used as a source address  by  this
           sender  in  this  session.   The  value  of all
           zeroes indicates 'any sender'."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 4 }


    rsvpResvProtocol OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Protocol
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The IP Protocol used by a session. for  secure
           sessions, this indicates IP Security."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 5 }










Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 23]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpResvDestPort OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Port
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The UDP or TCP port number used as a  destina-
           tion  port  for  all senders in this session. A
           value of zero indicates that the IP protocol in
           use, specified by rsvpSessionProtocol, does not
           have ports."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 6 }


    rsvpResvPort OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Port
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The UDP or TCP port number used  as  a  source
           port  for  this sender in this session. A value
           of zero indicates that the IP protocol in  use,
           specified by rsvpSessionProtocol, does not have
           ports or the port is being ignored."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 7 }


    rsvpResvHopAddr OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The address used by the next RSVP  hop  (which
           may be the ultimate receiver)."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 8 }


    rsvpResvInterface OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      InterfaceIndex
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The ifIndex value of the  interface  on  which
           this RESV message was most recently received."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 9 }






Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 24]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpResvService OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      QosService
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The QoS Service  classification  requested  by
           the receiver."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 10 }


    rsvpResvTSpecRate OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      BitRate
        UNITS       "kilobits per second"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Average Bit  Rate  of  the  sender's  data
           stream, in kilobits/second.  Within a transmis-
           sion burst, the arrival rate may be as fast  as
           rsvpResvTSpecPeakRate (if supported by the ser-
           vice model); however, averaged  across  two  or
           more  burst  intervals,  the  rate  should  not
           exceed rsvpResvTSpecRate.

           Note that this is a prediction, often based  on
           the  general  capability  of a type of codec or
           particular encoding; the measured average  rate
           may be significantly lower."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 11 }


    rsvpResvTSpecPeakRate OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      BitRate
        UNITS       "kilobits per second"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Peak Bit Rate of the sender's data stream,
           in  kilobits/second. Traffic arrival is not ex-
           pected to exceed this rate at any  time,  apart
           from  the effects of jitter in the network.  If
           not specified in the TSpec, this  returns  zero
           or noSuchValue."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 12 }






Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 25]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpResvTSpecBurst OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      BurstSize
        UNITS       "bits"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The size of the largest  burst  expected  from
           the sender at a time.

           If this is less than  the  sender's  advertised
           burst  size, the receiver is asking the network
           to provide flow pacing  beyond  what  would  be
           provided  under normal circumstances. Such pac-
           ing is at the network's option."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 13 }


    rsvpResvTSpecLevel OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      DelayClass
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "If the service is  predictive  or  controlled-
           delay,  this is the service level that is being
           requested.  Otherwise, it is zero, or the agent
           may return noSuchValue."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 14 }


    rsvpResvTSpecMinTU OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      MessageSize
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The minimum message size for  this  flow.  The
           policing  algorithm will treat smaller messages
           as though they are this size."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 15 }












Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 26]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpResvTSpecMaxTU OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      MessageSize
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The maximum message size for  this  flow.  The
           admission  algorithm  will  reject TSpecs whose
           Maximum Transmission Unit, plus  the  interface
           headers, exceed the interface MTU."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 16 }


    rsvpResvInterval OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RefreshInterval
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The interval between RESV receipt  of  refresh
           messages as advertised by the Next Hop."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 17 }


    rsvpResvScope OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The contents of the scope object, displayed as
           an  uninterpreted  string  of octets, including
           the object header.  In the absence of  such  an
           object, this should be of zero length."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 18 }


    rsvpResvShared OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TruthValue
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "If TRUE, a reservation shared among senders is
           requested.  If FALSE, a reservation specific to
           this sender is requested."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 19 }







Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 27]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpResvExplicit OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TruthValue
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "If TRUE, individual senders are  listed  using
           Filter  Specifications.   If FALSE, senders are
           listed in the Scope Object."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 20 }


    rsvpResvRSVPHop OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TruthValue
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "If TRUE, the node believes that the  next  hop
           is  an  RSVP  hop.  If FALSE, the node believes
           that the next hop may not be an RSVP hop."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 21 }


    rsvpResvLastChange OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TimeStamp
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The time of the last change in  this  reserva-
           tion  request;  This includes the first time it
           was received, or time of the most recent change
           in parameters."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 22 }


    rsvpResvPolicy OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The contents of the policy  object,  displayed
           as an uninterpreted string of octets, including
           the object header.  In the absence of  such  an
           object, this should be of zero length."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 23 }






Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 28]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpResvStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RowStatus
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "'valid' for all active  RESV  messages.   This
           object  may  be used to install static RESV in-
           formation or delete RESV information."
       ::= { rsvpResvEntry 24 }









































Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 29]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


--      The RSVP Reservation Requests Forwarded Table contains the
--      information displayed by receivers regarding their needs with
--      respect to sessions and senders. It is in essence a list of the
--      valid RESV messages that the RSVP Router or Host is sending
--      to its upstream neighbors.


    rsvpResvFwdNewIndex OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TestAndIncr
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This  object  is  used  to  assign  values  to
           rsvpResvFwdNumber as described in 'Textual Con-
           ventions  for  SNMPv2'.   The  network  manager
           reads  the  object,  and  then writes the value
           back in the SET that creates a new instance  of
           rsvpResvFwdEntry.   If  the  SET fails with the
           code 'inconsistentValue', then the process must
           be  repeated; If the SET succeeds, then the ob-
           ject is incremented, and the  new  instance  is
           created according to the manager's directions."
       ::= { rsvpGenObjects 4 }


    rsvpResvFwdTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF RsvpResvFwdEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Information describing the  state  information
           displayed upstream in RESV messages."
       ::= { rsvpObjects 4 }

















Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 30]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpResvFwdEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RsvpResvFwdEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Information describing the  state  information
           displayed  upstream in an RESV message concern-
           ing a single sender."
       INDEX { rsvpSessionNumber, rsvpResvFwdNumber }
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdTable 1 }


    RsvpResvFwdEntry ::=
        SEQUENCE {
            rsvpResvFwdNumber               SessionNumber,
            rsvpResvFwdType                 SessionType,
            rsvpResvFwdDestAddr             OCTET STRING,
            rsvpResvFwdSenderAddr           OCTET STRING,
            rsvpResvFwdProtocol             Protocol,
            rsvpResvFwdDestPort             Port,
            rsvpResvFwdPort                 Port,
            rsvpResvFwdInterface            InterfaceIndex,
            rsvpResvFwdService              QosService,
            rsvpResvFwdTSpecRate            BitRate,
            rsvpResvFwdTSpecPeakRate        BitRate,
            rsvpResvFwdTSpecBurst           BurstSize,
            rsvpResvFwdTSpecLevel           DelayClass,
            rsvpResvFwdTSpecMinTU           MessageSize,
            rsvpResvFwdTSpecMaxTU           MessageSize,
            rsvpResvFwdInterval             RefreshInterval,
            rsvpResvFwdScope                OCTET STRING,
            rsvpResvFwdShared               TruthValue,
            rsvpResvFwdExplicit             TruthValue,
            rsvpResvFwdRSVPHop              TruthValue,
            rsvpResvFwdLastChange           TimeStamp,
            rsvpResvFwdPolicy               OCTET STRING,
            rsvpResvFwdStatus               RowStatus
        }












Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 31]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpResvFwdNumber OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SessionNumber
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of this session.  This is for  SNMP
           Indexing  purposes  only and has no relation to
           any protocol vaalue."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 1 }


    rsvpResvFwdType OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SessionType
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The type of session (IP4, IP6, IP6  with  flow
           information,  etc), and therefore the structure
           of the information."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 2 }


    rsvpResvFwdDestAddr OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Address used as a destination  address  by
           all senders in this session."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 3 }


    rsvpResvFwdSenderAddr OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Address used as a source address  by  this
           sender in this session.  The value 0 designates
           'any sender'."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 4 }









Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 32]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpResvFwdProtocol OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Protocol
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The IP Protocol used by a session. for  secure
           sessions, this indicates IP Security."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 5 }


    rsvpResvFwdDestPort OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Port
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The UDP or TCP port number used as a  destina-
           tion  port  for  all senders in this session. A
           value of zero indicates that the IP protocol in
           use, specified by rsvpSessionProtocol, does not
           have ports."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 6 }


    rsvpResvFwdPort OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Port
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The UDP or TCP port number used  as  a  source
           port  for  this sender in this session. A value
           of zero indicates that the IP protocol in  use,
           specified by rsvpSessionProtocol, does not have
           ports."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 7 }


    rsvpResvFwdInterface OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      InterfaceIndex
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The ifIndex value of the  interface  on  which
           this RESV message was most recently sent."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 8 }






Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 33]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpResvFwdService OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      QosService
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The QoS Service classification requested."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 9 }


    rsvpResvFwdTSpecRate OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      BitRate
        UNITS       "kilobits per second"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Average Bit  Rate  of  the  sender's  data
           stream, in kilobits/second.  Within a transmis-
           sion burst, the arrival rate may be as fast  as
           rsvpResvFwdTSpecPeakRate  (if  supported by the
           service model); however, averaged across two or
           more  burst  intervals,  the  rate  should  not
           exceed rsvpResvFwdTSpecRate.

           Note that this is a prediction, often based  on
           the  general  capability  of a type of codec or
           particular encoding; the measured average  rate
           may be significantly lower."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 10 }


    rsvpResvFwdTSpecPeakRate OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      BitRate
        UNITS       "kilobits per second"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Peak Bit Rate of the sender's data stream,
           in  kilobits/second. Traffic arrival is not ex-
           pected to exceed this rate at any  time,  apart
           from  the effects of jitter in the network.  If
           not specified in the TSpec, this  returns  zero
           or noSuchValue."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 11 }







Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 34]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpResvFwdTSpecBurst OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      BurstSize
        UNITS       "bits"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The size of the largest  burst  expected  from
           the sender at a time.

           If this is less than  the  sender's  advertised
           burst  size, the receiver is asking the network
           to provide flow pacing  beyond  what  would  be
           provided  under normal circumstances. Such pac-
           ing is at the network's option."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 12 }


    rsvpResvFwdTSpecLevel OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      DelayClass
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "If the service is  predictive  or  controlled-
           delay,  this is the service level that is being
           requested.  Otherwise, it is zero, or the agent
           may return noSuchValue."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 13 }


    rsvpResvFwdTSpecMinTU OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      MessageSize
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The minimum message size for  this  flow.  The
           policing  algorithm will treat smaller messages
           as though they are this size."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 14 }












Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 35]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpResvFwdTSpecMaxTU OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      MessageSize
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The maximum message size for  this  flow.  The
           admission  algorithm  will  reject TSpecs whose
           Maximum Transmission Unit, plus  the  interface
           headers, exceed the interface MTU."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 15 }


    rsvpResvFwdInterval OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RefreshInterval
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The interval between RESV receipt  of  refresh
           messages advertised to the Previous Hop."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 16 }


    rsvpResvFwdScope OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The contents of the scope object, displayed as
           an  uninterpreted  string  of octets, including
           the object header.  In the absence of  such  an
           object, this should be of zero length."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 17 }


    rsvpResvFwdShared OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TruthValue
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "If TRUE, a reservation shared among senders is
           requested.  If FALSE, a reservation specific to
           this sender is requested."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 18 }







Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 36]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpResvFwdExplicit OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TruthValue
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "If TRUE, individual senders are  listed  using
           Filter  Specifications.   If FALSE, senders are
           listed in the Scope Object."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 19 }


    rsvpResvFwdRSVPHop OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TruthValue
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "If TRUE, the node believes that the  next  hop
           is  an  RSVP  hop.  If FALSE, the node believes
           that the next hop may not be an RSVP hop."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 20 }


    rsvpResvFwdLastChange OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TimeStamp
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The time of the last change in  this  request;
           This  includes the first time it was requested,
           or time of the most recent change in parameters
           requested."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 21 }


    rsvpResvFwdPolicy OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The contents of the policy  object,  displayed
           as an uninterpreted string of octets, including
           the object header.  In the absence of  such  an
           object, this should be of zero length."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 22 }






Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 37]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpResvFwdStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RowStatus
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "'valid' for all active  RESV  messages.   This
           object  may  be used to install static RESV in-
           formation or delete RESV information."
       ::= { rsvpResvFwdEntry 23 }









































Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 38]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


--      The RSVP Active Flows Database
--      lists all flows active on an outgoing interface, including
--      relevant attributes.


    rsvpFlowTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF RsvpFlowEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Information describing the reserved flows  us-
           ing the system's interfaces."
       ::= { rsvpObjects 5 }


    rsvpFlowEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RsvpFlowEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Information describing the use of a given  in-
           terface by a given flow."
       INDEX { rsvpFlowNumber }
       ::= { rsvpFlowTable 1 }


    RsvpFlowEntry ::=
        SEQUENCE {
            rsvpFlowNumber                  SessionNumber,
            rsvpFlowType                    SessionType,
            rsvpFlowDestAddr                OCTET STRING,
            rsvpFlowSenderAddr              OCTET STRING,
            rsvpFlowProtocol                Protocol,
            rsvpFlowDestPort                Port,
            rsvpFlowPort                    Port,
            rsvpFlowInterface               InterfaceIndex,
            rsvpFlowRate                    BitRate,
            rsvpFlowBurst                   BurstSize,
            rsvpFlowWeight                  Integer32,
            rsvpFlowQueue                   Integer32,
            rsvpFlowMinTU                   MessageSize,
            rsvpFlowDontAsk                 TimeInterval,
            rsvpFlowStatus                  RowStatus
        }






Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 39]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpFlowNumber OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SessionNumber
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of this session.  This is for  SNMP
           Indexing  purposes  only and has no relation to
           any protocol vaalue."
       ::= { rsvpFlowEntry 1 }


    rsvpFlowType OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SessionType
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The type of session (IP4, IP6, IP6  with  flow
           information,  etc), and therefore the structure
           of the information."
       ::= { rsvpFlowEntry 2 }


    rsvpFlowDestAddr OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Address used as a destination  address  by
           all senders in this session."
       ::= { rsvpFlowEntry 3 }


    rsvpFlowSenderAddr OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Address used as a source address  by  this
           sender in this session."
       ::= { rsvpFlowEntry 4 }










Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 40]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpFlowProtocol OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Protocol
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The IP Protocol used by a session. for  secure
           sessions, this indicates IP Security."
       ::= { rsvpFlowEntry 5 }


    rsvpFlowDestPort OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Port
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The UDP or TCP port number used as a  destina-
           tion  port  for  all senders in this session. A
           value of zero indicates that the IP protocol in
           use, specified by rsvpSessionProtocol, does not
           have ports."
       ::= { rsvpFlowEntry 6 }


    rsvpFlowPort OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Port
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The UDP or TCP port number used  as  a  source
           port  for  this sender in this session. A value
           of zero indicates that the IP protocol in  use,
           specified by rsvpSessionProtocol, does not have
           ports."
       ::= { rsvpFlowEntry 7 }


    rsvpFlowInterface OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      InterfaceIndex
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The ifIndex value of the  interface  on  which
           this PATH message was most recently received."
       ::= { rsvpFlowEntry 8 }






Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 41]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpFlowRate OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      BitRate
        UNITS       "kilobits per second"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The Average Bit  Rate  of  the  sender's  data
           stream,  in  Kilobits.   The  rate may be arbi-
           trarily fast during a short  interval  such  as
           the  duration  of a video frame.  However, over
           any two such intervals it will not average fas-
           ter than the average rate as transmitted by the
           sender."
       ::= { rsvpFlowEntry 9 }


    rsvpFlowBurst OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      BurstSize
        UNITS       "bits"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The size of the largest  burst  expected  from
           the sender at a time.

           If this is less than  the  sender's  advertised
           burst  size, the receiver is asking the network
           to provide flow pacing  beyond  what  would  be
           provided  under normal circumstances. Such pac-
           ing is at the network's option."
       ::= { rsvpFlowEntry 10 }


    rsvpFlowWeight OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Integer32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The weight used  to  prioritize  the  traffic.
           Note  that the interpretation of this object is
           implementation-specific,   as   implementations
           vary in their use of weighting procedures."
       ::= { rsvpFlowEntry 11 }







Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 42]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpFlowQueue OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Integer32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of the queue used by this  traffic.
           Note  that the interpretation of this object is
           implementation-specific,   as   implementations
           vary in their use of queue identifiers."
       ::= { rsvpFlowEntry 12 }


    rsvpFlowMinTU OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      MessageSize
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The minimum message size for  this  flow.  The
           policing  algorithm will treat smaller messages
           as though they are this size."
       ::= { rsvpFlowEntry 13 }


    rsvpFlowDontAsk OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TimeInterval
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "A period of time, measured in hundredths of  a
           second,  during  which  the  agent is precluded
           from sending a newFlow  notification  for  this
           conversation.

           If an authorizing application leaves rsvpFlowS-
           tatus  in  a  state other than 'valid' and sets
           rsvpFlowDontAsk to a non-zero value, the  agent
           must  neither  consider the flow active for ad-
           mission or queuing purposes, or re-request  au-
           thorization  to install it, until the indicated
           amount of time has elapsed."
       ::= { rsvpFlowEntry 14 }









Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 43]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpFlowStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RowStatus
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "'valid' for all active flows.  This object may
           be  used  to install static classifier informa-
           tion, delete classifier information, or author-
           ize such."
       ::= { rsvpFlowEntry 15 }








































Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 44]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


--      The RSVP Interface Attributes Database contains the
--      RSVP-specific information for an interface. Information
--      that is shared with other reservation procedures such
--      as ST-II is in the Integrated Interface Attributes
--      Database.


    rsvpIfTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF RsvpIfEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The RSVP-specific attributes of  the  system's
           interfaces."
       ::= { rsvpObjects 6 }


    rsvpIfEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RsvpIfEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The RSVP-specific attributes of  the  a  given
           interface."
       INDEX { ifIndex }

       ::= { rsvpIfTable 1 }

RsvpIfEntry ::=
    SEQUENCE {
    rsvpIfUdpNbrs                       Gauge32,
    rsvpIfIpNbrs                        Gauge32,
    rsvpIfNbrs                          Gauge32,
    rsvpIfEnabled                       TruthValue,
    rsvpIfUdpRequired                   TruthValue,
    rsvpIfRefreshBlockadeMultiple       INTEGER,
    rsvpIfRefreshMultiple               INTEGER,
    rsvpIfTTL                           INTEGER,
    rsvpIfRefreshInterval               TimeInterval,
    rsvpIfRouteDelay                    TimeInterval,
    rsvpIfStatus                        RowStatus
    }








Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 45]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpIfUdpNbrs OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Gauge32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of neighbors perceived to be  using
           only the RSVP UDP Encapsulation."
       ::= { rsvpIfEntry 1 }


    rsvpIfIpNbrs OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Gauge32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of neighbors perceived to be  using
           only the RSVP IP Encapsulation."
       ::= { rsvpIfEntry 2 }


    rsvpIfNbrs OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Gauge32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of neighbors  currently  perceived;
           this  will  exceed rsvpIfIpNbrs + rsvpIfUdpNbrs
           by the number of neighbors using both  encapsu-
           lations."
       ::= { rsvpIfEntry 3 }


    rsvpIfRefreshBlockadeMultiple OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER (1..65536)
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value of the RSVP value 'Kb', Which is the
           minimum   number   of  refresh  intervals  that
           blockade state will last once entered."
       DEFVAL      { 4 }
       ::= { rsvpIfEntry 4 }








Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 46]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpIfRefreshMultiple OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER (1..65536)
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value of the RSVP value 'K', which is  the
           number  of  refresh intervals which must elapse
           (minimum) before a PATH or RESV  message  which
           is not being refreshed will be aged out."
       DEFVAL      { 4 }
       ::= { rsvpIfEntry 5 }


    rsvpIfTTL OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..255)
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value of SEND_TTL used on this  interface.
           If  set  to zero, then the TTL in RSVP messages
           is not overridden."
       DEFVAL { 0 } -- which is to say, no override
       ::= { rsvpIfEntry 6 }


    rsvpIfRefreshInterval OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TimeInterval
        UNITS       "hundredths of a second"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value of the RSVP value 'R', which is  the
           minimum period between refresh transmissions of
           a given PATH or RESV message on an interface."
       DEFVAL      { 3000 }        -- 30 seconds
       ::= { rsvpIfEntry 7 }














Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 47]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpIfRouteDelay OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TimeInterval
        UNITS       "hundredths of a second"
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The approximate period from the time  a  route
           is  changed to the time that a route is changed
           to the time a resulting message appears on  the
           interface."
       DEFVAL      { 200 } -- 2 seconds
       ::= { rsvpIfEntry 8 }


    rsvpIfEnabled OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TruthValue
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "If TRUE, RSVP is enabled  on  this  Interface.
           If  FALSE,  RSVP  is not enabled on this inter-
           face."
       ::= { rsvpIfEntry 9 }


    rsvpIfUdpRequired OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TruthValue
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "If TRUE, manual configuration forces  the  use
           of  UDP  encapsulation  on  the  interface.  If
           FALSE, UDP encapsulation is only used if rsvpI-
           fUdpNbrs is not zero."

       ::= { rsvpIfEntry 10 }














Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 48]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpIfStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RowStatus
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "'valid' on interfaces that are configured  for
           RSVP."
       ::= { rsvpIfEntry 11 }










































Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 49]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


--      The RSVP Neighbor Database lists the neighbors the RSVP
--      process currently is receiving messages from.


    rsvpNbrTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF RsvpNbrEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Information describing  the  Neighbors  of  an
           RSVP system."
       ::= { rsvpObjects 7 }


    rsvpNbrEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RsvpNbrEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Information describing a  single  RSVP  Neigh-
           bor."
       INDEX { ifIndex, rsvpNbrAddress }
       ::= { rsvpNbrTable 1 }

RsvpNbrEntry ::=
    SEQUENCE {
    rsvpNbrAddress      OCTET STRING,
    rsvpNbrProtocol     RsvpEncapsulation,
    rsvpNbrStatus       RowStatus
    }

    rsvpNbrAddress OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING (SIZE(4..16))
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The IP4 or IP6 Address used by this neighbor."
       ::= { rsvpNbrEntry 1 }












Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 50]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpNbrProtocol OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RsvpEncapsulation
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The encapsulation being used  by  this  neigh-
           bor."
       ::= { rsvpNbrEntry 2 }


    rsvpNbrStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RowStatus
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "'valid' for all neighbors.  This object may be
           used  to  configure neighbors.  In the presence
           of configured neighbors, the implementation may
           (but is not required to) limit the set of valid
           neighbors to those configured."
       ::= { rsvpNbrEntry 3 }





























Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 51]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


--
--      Notifications used to signal events
--

    newFlow NOTIFICATION-TYPE
        OBJECTS {
            rsvpFlowNumber, rsvpFlowType, rsvpFlowDestAddr,
            rsvpFlowSenderAddr, rsvpFlowProtocol, rsvpFlowDestPort,
            rsvpFlowPort, rsvpFlowInterface, rsvpFlowRate, rsvpFlowBurst,
            rsvpFlowWeight, rsvpFlowQueue, rsvpFlowMinTU
        }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The newFlow trap indicates that the  originat-
           ing  system  has  installed  a  new flow in its
           classifier, or (when reservation  authorization
           is  in view) is prepared to install such a flow
           in the classifier and is requesting  authoriza-
           tion.   The objects included with the Notifica-
           tion may be used to  read  further  information
           using  the  RSVP  MIB.   Authorization  or non-
           authorization may be enacted by a write to  the
           variable rsvpFlowStatus."
       ::= { rsvpNotifications 1 }


    lostFlow NOTIFICATION-TYPE
        OBJECTS {
            rsvpFlowNumber, rsvpFlowType, rsvpFlowDestAddr,
            rsvpFlowSenderAddr, rsvpFlowProtocol, rsvpFlowDestPort,
            rsvpFlowPort, rsvpFlowInterface
        }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The lostFlow trap indicates that the originat-
           ing  system  has removed a flow in its classif-
           ier."
       ::= { rsvpNotifications 2 }












Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 52]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


-- conformance information


rsvpGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { rsvpConformance 1 }
rsvpCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { rsvpConformance 2 }

-- compliance statements

    rsvpCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The compliance statement.  Note that  the  im-
           plementation  of this module requires implemen-
           tation of the Integrated Services MIB as well."
       MODULE  -- this module
       MANDATORY-GROUPS {
           rsvpSessionGroup, rsvpSenderGroup, rsvpResvGroup,
           rsvpResvFwdGroup, rsvpFlowGroup, rsvpIfGroup,
           rsvpNbrGroup
           }
       ::= { rsvpCompliances 1 }


    rsvpSessionGroup OBJECT-GROUP
         OBJECTS {
            rsvpSessionNewIndex, rsvpSessionType, rsvpSessionDestAddr,
            rsvpSessionProtocol, rsvpSessionPort, rsvpSessionSenders,
            rsvpSessionReceivers, rsvpSessionRequests
        }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
           "These objects are required for RSVP Systems."
       ::= { rsvpGroups 1 }

















Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 53]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpSenderGroup OBJECT-GROUP
         OBJECTS {
            rsvpSenderType, rsvpSenderDestAddr, rsvpSenderSenderAddr,
            rsvpSenderProtocol, rsvpSenderDestPort, rsvpSenderPort,
            rsvpSenderHopAddr, rsvpSenderInterface, rsvpSenderTSpecRate,
            rsvpSenderTSpecPeakRate, rsvpSenderTSpecBurst,
            rsvpSenderTSpecMinTU, rsvpSenderTSpecMaxTU, rsvpSenderInterval,
            rsvpSenderLastChange, rsvpSenderStatus, rsvpSenderRSVPHop,
            rsvpSenderPolicy, rsvpSenderAdspec, rsvpSenderNewIndex
        }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
           "These objects are required for RSVP Systems."
       ::= { rsvpGroups 2 }


    rsvpResvGroup OBJECT-GROUP
         OBJECTS {
            rsvpResvType, rsvpResvDestAddr, rsvpResvSenderAddr,
            rsvpResvProtocol, rsvpResvDestPort, rsvpResvPort,
            rsvpResvHopAddr, rsvpResvInterface, rsvpResvService,
            rsvpResvTSpecRate, rsvpResvTSpecBurst, rsvpResvTSpecPeakRate,
            rsvpResvTSpecMinTU, rsvpResvTSpecMaxTU, rsvpResvTSpecLevel,
            rsvpResvInterval, rsvpResvScope, rsvpResvShared,
            rsvpResvExplicit, rsvpResvRSVPHop, rsvpResvLastChange,
            rsvpResvPolicy, rsvpResvStatus, rsvpResvNewIndex
        }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
           "These objects are required for RSVP Systems."
       ::= { rsvpGroups 3 }



















Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 54]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpResvFwdGroup OBJECT-GROUP
         OBJECTS {
            rsvpResvFwdType, rsvpResvFwdDestAddr, rsvpResvFwdSenderAddr,
            rsvpResvFwdProtocol, rsvpResvFwdDestPort, rsvpResvFwdPort,
            rsvpResvFwdInterface, rsvpResvFwdNewIndex, rsvpResvFwdService,
            rsvpResvFwdTSpecPeakRate, rsvpResvFwdTSpecMinTU,
            rsvpResvFwdTSpecMaxTU, rsvpResvFwdTSpecRate,
            rsvpResvFwdTSpecBurst, rsvpResvFwdTSpecLevel,
            rsvpResvFwdInterval, rsvpResvFwdScope, rsvpResvFwdShared,
            rsvpResvFwdExplicit, rsvpResvFwdRSVPHop, rsvpResvFwdLastChange,
            rsvpResvFwdPolicy, rsvpResvFwdStatus
        }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
           "These objects are required for RSVP Systems."
       ::= { rsvpGroups 4 }


    rsvpFlowGroup OBJECT-GROUP
         OBJECTS {
            rsvpFlowType, rsvpFlowDestAddr, rsvpFlowSenderAddr,
            rsvpFlowProtocol, rsvpFlowDestPort, rsvpFlowPort,
            rsvpFlowInterface, rsvpFlowDontAsk, rsvpFlowRate,
            rsvpFlowBurst, rsvpFlowWeight, rsvpFlowQueue, rsvpFlowMinTU,
            rsvpFlowStatus
        }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
           "These objects are required for RSVP Systems."
       ::= { rsvpGroups 5 }


    rsvpIfGroup OBJECT-GROUP
         OBJECTS {
            rsvpIfUdpNbrs, rsvpIfIpNbrs, rsvpIfNbrs, rsvpIfEnabled,
            rsvpIfUdpRequired, rsvpIfRefreshBlockadeMultiple,
            rsvpIfRefreshMultiple, rsvpIfRefreshInterval, rsvpIfTTL,
            rsvpIfRouteDelay, rsvpIfStatus
        }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
           "These objects are required for RSVP Systems."
       ::= { rsvpGroups 6 }







Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 55]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


    rsvpNbrGroup OBJECT-GROUP
         OBJECTS {
            rsvpNbrProtocol, rsvpNbrStatus
        }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
           "These objects are required for RSVP Systems."
       ::= { rsvpGroups 7 }


END







































Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 56]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


6.  Acknowledgements

This document was produced by the RSVP Working Group.















































Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 57]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


7.  References

[1]  M.T. Rose (editor), Management Information Base for
     Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets, Internet
     Working Group Request for Comments 1213.  Network
     Information Center, SRI International, Menlo Park,
     California, (May, 1990).

[2]  Information processing systems - Open Systems
     Interconnection - Specification of Abstract Syntax
     Notation One (ASN.1), International Organization for
     Standardization.  International Standard 8824, (December,
     1987).

[3]  Information processing systems - Open Systems
     Interconnection - Specification of Basic Encoding Rules
     for Abstract Notation One (ASN.1), International
     Organization for Standardization.  International Standard
     8825, (December, 1987).































Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 58]




Internet Draft             RSVP MIB                 March 1996


Table of Contents


1 Status of this Memo ...................................    1
2 Abstract ..............................................    2
3 The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework ...............    3
3.1 Object Definitions ..................................    3
4 Overview ..............................................    3
4.1 Textual Conventions .................................    3
4.2 Structure of MIB ....................................    4
5 Definitions ...........................................    5
5.1 RSVP Session Statistics Database ....................    8
5.1 RSVP Session Sender Database ........................   12
5.2 RSVP Reservations Requested Database ................   20
5.3 RSVP Reservation Requests Database ..................   29
5.3 RSVP Interface Flows Database .......................   38
5.4 RSVP Interface Attributes Database ..................   44
5.5 RSVP Neighbor Database ..............................   49
5.4 Notifications .......................................   51
6 Acknowledgements ......................................   57
7 References ............................................   58





























Baker and Krawczyk  Expires September 1996           [Page 59]
