



Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


                 RIP Version 2 MIB Extension

                         July 6, 1992


                         Gary Malkin

                        Xylogics, Inc.
                       53 Third Avenue
                    Burlington, MA  01803
                     gmalkin@Xylogics.COM


                          Fred Baker

               Advanced Computer Communications
                       315 Bollay Drive
            Santa Barbara, California  93117-6014
                        fbaker@acc.com


_1.  _S_t_a_t_u_s _o_f _t_h_i_s _M_e_m_o

This document is an Internet Draft.  Internet Drafts are
working documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force
(IETF), its Areas, and its Working Groups. Note that other
groups may also distribute working documents as Internet
Drafts).

Internet Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
months. Internet Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted
by other documents at any time.  It is not appropriate to use
Internet Drafts as reference material or to cite them other
than as a "working draft" or "work in progress."

Please check the I-D abstract listing contained in each
Internet Draft directory to learn the current status of this
or any other Internet Draft.

It is intended that this document will be submitted to the
IESG for consideration as a standards document.  Distribution
of this document is unlimited.

Please send comments to ietf-rip@xylogics.com.





Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92              [Page 1]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


_2.  _A_b_s_t_r_a_c_t

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management
Information Base (MIB) for use with network management
protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In particular, it
defines objects for managing RIP Version 2.

This memo does not specify a standard for the Internet
community.



_3.  _T_h_e _N_e_t_w_o_r_k _M_a_n_a_g_e_m_e_n_t _F_r_a_m_e_w_o_r_k

The Internet-standard Network Management Framework consists of
three components.  They are:

RFC 1155 which defines the SMI, the mechanisms used for
describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.
RFC 1212 defines a more concise description mechanism, which
is wholly consistent with the SMI.

RFC 1156 which defines MIB-I, the core set of managed objects
for the Internet suite of protocols.  RFC 1213 defines MIB-II,
an evolution of MIB-I based on implementation experience and
new operational requirements.

RFC 1157 which defines the SNMP, the protocol used for network
access to managed objects.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the
purpose of experimentation and evaluation.



_4.  _O_b_j_e_c_t_s

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store,
termed the Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the
MIB are defined using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation
One (ASN.1) [7] defined in the SMI.  In particular, each
object has a name, a syntax, and an encoding.  The name is an
object identifier, an administratively assigned name, which
specifies an object type.  The object type together with an
object instance serves to uniquely identify a specific





Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92              [Page 2]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


instanciation of the object.  For human convenience, we often
use a textual string, termed the OBJECT DESCRIPTOR, to also
refer to the object type.

The syntax of an object type defines the abstract data
structure corresponding to that object type.  The ASN.1
language is used for this purpose.  However, the SMI [3]
purposely restricts the ASN.1 constructs which may be used.
These restrictions are explicitly made for simplicity.

The encoding of an object type is simply how that object type
is represented using the object type's syntax.  Implicitly
tied to the notion of an object type's syntax and encoding is
how the object type is represented when being transmitted on
the network.

The SMI specifies the use of the basic encoding rules of ASN.1
[8], subject to the additional requirements imposed by the
SNMP.


_4._1.  _F_o_r_m_a_t _o_f _D_e_f_i_n_i_t_i_o_n_s

Section 6 contains contains the specification of all object
types contained in this MIB module.  The object types are
defined using the conventions defined in the SMI, as amended
by the extensions specified in [9].



_5.  _O_v_e_r_v_i_e_w

_5._1.  _T_e_x_t_u_a_l _C_o_n_v_e_n_t_i_o_n_s

Several new data types are introduced as a textual convention
in this MIB document.  These textual conventions enhance the
readability of the specification and can ease comparison with
other specifications if appropriate.  It should be noted that
the introduction of the these textual conventions has no
effect on either the syntax nor the semantics of any managed
objects.  The use of these is merely an artifact of the
explanatory method used.  Objects defined in terms of one of
these methods are always encoded by means of the rules that
define the primitive type.  Hence, no changes to the SMI or
the SNMP are necessary to accommodate these textual





Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92              [Page 3]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


conventions which are adopted merely for the convenience of
readers and writers in pursuit of the elusive goal of clear,
concise, and unambiguous MIB documents.

The new data types are: Validation (the standard "set to
invalid causes deletion" type), and RouteTag.   The RouteTag
type represents the contents of the Route Tag field in the
packet header or route entry.


_5._2.  _S_t_r_u_c_t_u_r_e _o_f _M_I_B

The RIP-2 MIB contains global counters useful for detecting
the deleterious effects of RIP incompatibilities, an
"interfaces" table which contains interface-specific
statistics and configuration information, and an optional
"neighbor" table containing information that may be helpful in
debugging neighbor relationships.  Like the protocol itself,
this MIB takes great care to preserve compatibility with RIP-1
systems, and controls for monitoring and controlling system
interactions.




























Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92              [Page 4]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


_6.  _D_e_f_i_n_i_t_i_o_n_s


RFCRIP2-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
        experimental, Counter, TimeTicks, IpAddress
                FROM RFC1155-SMI
        OBJECT-TYPE
                FROM RFC-1212;

--  RIP-2 Management Information Base

  -- Note: IANA has a special curse that it utters over
  -- people who install the following OID in their systems...
  rip2 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { experimental 1234 }

-- the RouteTag type represents the contents of the
-- Route Tag field in the packet header or route entry.

RouteTag ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))

-- the Validation type is used for the variable that deletes
-- an entry from a table, and ALWAYS takes at least these values:

Validation ::= INTEGER { valid (1), invalid (2) }























Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92              [Page 5]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


--      The RIP 2 Globals Group.
--      Implementation of this group is mandatory for systems that
--           implement RIP-2.

-- These counters are intended to facilitate debugging quickly
-- changing routes or failing neighbors

rip2GlobalGroup OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { rip2 1 }


    rip2GlobalRouteChanges OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Counter
        ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of changes made to the IP Route Da-
           tabase by RIP."
       ::= { rip2GlobalGroup 1 }


    rip2GlobalQueries OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Counter
        ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of responses sent  to  RIP  queries
           from other systems."
       ::= { rip2GlobalGroup 2 }





















Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92              [Page 6]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


--  RIP Interfaces Groups
--  Implementation of these Groups is mandatory for systems that
--       implement RIP-2.

-- Since RIP versions 1 and 2 do not deal with addressless links,
-- it is assumed that RIP "interfaces" are subnets within a
-- routing domain.

-- The RIP Interface Status Table.

    rip2IfStatTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   SEQUENCE OF Rip2IfStatEntry
        ACCESS   not-accessible
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "A  list  of  subnets  which  require  separate
           status monitoring in RIP."
       ::= { rip2 2 }

   rip2IfStatEntry OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX   Rip2IfStatEntry
       ACCESS   not-accessible
       STATUS   mandatory
       DESCRIPTION
          "A Single Routing Domain in a single Subnet."
      INDEX { rip2IfStatAddress }
      ::= { rip2IfStatTable 1 }


    Rip2IfStatEntry ::=
        SEQUENCE {
            rip2IfStatAddress
                IpAddress,
            rip2IfStatRcvBadPackets
                Counter,
            rip2IfStatRcvBadRoutes
                Counter,
            rip2IfStatSentUpdates
                Counter,
            rip2IfStatStatus
                Validation
    }







Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92              [Page 7]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


    rip2IfStatAddress OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   IpAddress
        ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "The IP Address of this system on the indicated
           subnet."
       ::= { rip2IfStatEntry 1 }


    rip2IfStatRcvBadPackets OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Counter
        ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of RIP response packets received by
           the  RIP  process  which were subsequently dis-
           carded for any reason (e.g. a version 0 packet,
           or an unknown command type)."
       ::= { rip2IfStatEntry 2 }


    rip2IfStatRcvBadRoutes OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Counter
        ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of routes, in  valid  RIP  packets,
           which were ignored for any reason (e.g. unknown
           address family, or invalid metric)."
       ::= { rip2IfStatEntry 3 }


    rip2IfStatSentUpdates OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Counter
        ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of triggered RIP  updates  actually
           sent  on  this interface.  This explicitly does
           NOT include full updates  sent  containing  new
           information."
       ::= { rip2IfStatEntry 4 }






Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92              [Page 8]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


    rip2IfStatStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Validation
        ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "Writing invalid has  the  effect  of  deleting
           this interface."
       DEFVAL { valid }
       ::= { rip2IfStatEntry 5 }








































Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92              [Page 9]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


-- The RIP Interface Configuration Table.


    rip2IfConfTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   SEQUENCE OF Rip2IfConfEntry
        ACCESS   not-accessible
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "A list of subnets which require separate  con-
           figuration in RIP."
       ::= { rip2 3 }

   rip2IfConfEntry OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX   Rip2IfConfEntry
       ACCESS   not-accessible
       STATUS   mandatory
       DESCRIPTION
          "A Single Routing Domain in a single Subnet."
      INDEX { rip2IfConfAddress }
      ::= { rip2IfConfTable 1 }


    Rip2IfConfEntry ::=
        SEQUENCE {
            rip2IfConfAddress
                IpAddress,
            rip2IfConfDomain
                RouteTag,
            rip2IfConfAuthType
                INTEGER,
            rip2IfConfAuthKey
                OCTET STRING (SIZE(0..16)),
            rip2IfConfSend
                INTEGER,
            rip2IfConfReceive
                INTEGER,
            rip2IfConfDefaultMetric
                INTEGER,
            rip2IfConfStatus
                Validation
    }








Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92             [Page 10]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


    rip2IfConfAddress OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   IpAddress
        ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "The IP Address of this system on the indicated
           subnet."
       ::= { rip2IfConfEntry 1 }


    rip2IfConfDomain OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   RouteTag
        ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "Value inserted into the Routing  Domain  field
           of all RIP packets sent on this interface."
       DEFVAL { '0000'h }
       ::= { rip2IfConfEntry 2 }


    rip2IfConfAuthType OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   INTEGER {
                    noAuthentication (1),
                    simplePassword (2)
                 }
        ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "The type of Authentication used on this inter-
           face."
       DEFVAL { noAuthentication }
       ::= { rip2IfConfEntry 3 }
















Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92             [Page 11]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


    rip2IfConfAuthKey OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   OCTET STRING (SIZE(0..16))
        ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value to be used as the Authentication Key
           whenever    the   corresponding   instance   of
           rip2IfConfAuthType has  the  value  simplePass-
           word.   A modification of the corresponding in-
           stance of rip2IfConfAuthType  does  not  modify
           the rip2IfConfAuthKey value.

           If a string shorter than 16 octets is supplied,
           it  will be left-justified and padded to 16 oc-
           tets, on the right, with nulls (0x00).

           Reading this object always results in an  OCTET
           STRING  of  length zero; authentication may not
           be bypassed by reading the MIB object."
       DEFVAL { ''h }
       ::= { rip2IfConfEntry 4 }


    rip2IfConfSend OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   INTEGER {
                    doNotSend (1),
                    ripVersion1 (2),
                    rip1Compatible (3),
                    ripVersion2 (4)
                 }
        ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "What  the  router  sends  on  this  interface.
           ripVersion1 implies sending RIP updates compli-
           ant  with  RFC  1058.   rip1Compatible  implies
           broadcasting RIP-2 updates using RFC 1058 route
           subsumption rules.  ripVersion2 implies  multi-
           casting RIP-2 updates."
       DEFVAL { rip1Compatible }
       ::= { rip2IfConfEntry 5 }








Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92             [Page 12]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


    rip2IfConfReceive OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   INTEGER {
                    rip1 (1),
                    rip2 (2),
                    rip1OrRip2 (3)
                 }
        ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "This indicates which version  of  RIP  updates
           are   to  be  accepted.   Note  that  rip2  and
           rip1OrRip2 implies reception of multicast pack-
           ets."
       DEFVAL { rip1OrRip2 }
       ::= { rip2IfConfEntry 6 }


    rip2IfConfDefaultMetric OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   INTEGER ( 0..15 )
        ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "This variable indicates what metric is  to  be
           used  as  a  default  route in RIP updates ori-
           ginated on this interface.  A value of zero in-
           dicates  that  no  default route should be ori-
           ginated; in this  case,  a  default  route  via
           another router may be propagated."
       ::= { rip2IfConfEntry 7 }


    rip2IfConfStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Validation
        ACCESS   read-write
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "Writing invalid has  the  effect  of  deleting
           this interface."
       DEFVAL { valid }
       ::= { rip2IfConfEntry 8 }









Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92             [Page 13]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


--  Peer Table

--      The RIP Peer Group
--      Implementation of this Group is Optional

--      This group provides information about active peer
--      relationships intended to assist in debugging.

    rip2PeerTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   SEQUENCE OF Rip2PeerEntry
        ACCESS   not-accessible
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "A list of RIP Peers."
       ::= { rip2 4 }

   rip2PeerEntry OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX   Rip2PeerEntry
       ACCESS   not-accessible
       STATUS   mandatory
       DESCRIPTION
          "Information regarding a single routing peer."
      INDEX { rip2PeerAddress, rip2PeerDomain }
      ::= { rip2PeerTable 1 }


    Rip2PeerEntry ::=
        SEQUENCE {
            rip2PeerAddress
                IpAddress,
            rip2PeerDomain
                RouteTag,
            rip2PeerLastUpdate
                TimeTicks,
            rip2PeerVersion
                INTEGER,
            rip2PeerRcvBadPackets
                Counter,
            rip2PeerRcvBadRoutes
                Counter
            }








Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92             [Page 14]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


    rip2PeerAddress OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   IpAddress
        ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "The IP Address of the Peer System."
       ::= { rip2PeerEntry 1 }


    rip2PeerDomain OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   RouteTag
        ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value in the Routing Domain field  in  RIP
           packets received from the peer."
       ::= { rip2PeerEntry 2 }


    rip2PeerLastUpdate OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   TimeTicks
        ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value of sysUpTime when  the  most  recent
           RIP update was received from this system."
       ::= { rip2PeerEntry 3 }


    rip2PeerVersion OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   INTEGER ( 0..255 )
        ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "The RIP version number in the  header  of  the
           last RIP packet received."
       ::= { rip2PeerEntry 4 }












Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92             [Page 15]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


    rip2PeerRcvBadPackets OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Counter
        ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of RIP response packets  from  this
           peer discarded as invalid."
       ::= { rip2PeerEntry 5 }


    rip2PeerRcvBadRoutes OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX   Counter
        ACCESS   read-only
        STATUS   mandatory
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of routes from this peer that  were
           ignored because the entry format was invalid."
       ::= { rip2PeerEntry 6 }


END




























Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92             [Page 16]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


_7.  _A_c_k_n_o_w_l_e_d_g_e_m_e_n_t_s

This document was produced by the RIP 2 Working Group.


In addition, the comments of the following individuals are
also acknowledged: Keith McCloghrie and Frank Kastenholz.










































Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92             [Page 17]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


_8.  _R_e_f_e_r_e_n_c_e_s

[1]  V. Cerf, IAB Recommendations for the Development of
     Internet Network Management Standards.  Internet Working
     Group Request for Comments 1052.  Network Information
     Center, SRI International, Menlo Park, California,
     (April, 1988).

[2]  V. Cerf, Report of the Second Ad Hoc Network Management
     Review Group, Internet Working Group Request for Comments
     1109.  Network Information Center, SRI International,
     Menlo Park, California, (August, 1989).

[3]  M.T. Rose and K. McCloghrie, Structure and Identification
     of Management Information for TCP/IP-based internets,
     Internet Working Group Request for Comments 1155.
     Network Information Center, SRI International, Menlo
     Park, California, (May, 1990).

[4]  K. McCloghrie and M.T. Rose, Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets,
     Internet Working Group Request for Comments 1156.
     Network Information Center, SRI International, Menlo
     Park, California, (May, 1990).

[5]  J.D. Case, M.S. Fedor, M.L. Schoffstall, and J.R. Davin,
     Simple Network Management Protocol, Internet Working
     Group Request for Comments 1157.  Network Information
     Center, SRI International, Menlo Park, California, (May,
     1990).

[6]  M.T. Rose (editor), Management Information Base for
     Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets, Internet
     Working Group Request for Comments 1158.  Network
     Information Center, SRI International, Menlo Park,
     California, (May, 1990).

[7]  Information processing systems - Open Systems
     Interconnection - Specification of Abstract Syntax
     Notation One (ASN.1), International Organization for
     Standardization.  International Standard 8824, (December,
     1987).

[8]  Information processing systems - Open Systems
     Interconnection - Specification of Basic Encoding Rules





Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92             [Page 18]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


     for Abstract Notation One (ASN.1), International
     Organization for Standardization.  International Standard
     8825, (December, 1987).

[9]  M.T. Rose, K. McCloghrie (editors), Towards Concise MIB
     Definitions, Request for Comments 1212, Internet
     Engineering Task Force, (March, 1991).










































Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92             [Page 19]




Internet Draft       RIP 2 MIB Extension             July 1992


Table of Contents


1 Status of this Memo ...................................    1
2 Abstract ..............................................    2
3 The Network Management Framework ......................    2
4 Objects ...............................................    2
4.1 Format of Definitions ...............................    3
5 Overview ..............................................    3
5.1 Textual Conventions .................................    3
5.2 Structure of MIB ....................................    4
6 Definitions ...........................................    5
6.1 Global Counters .....................................    6
6.2 RIP Interface Tables ................................    7
6.3 Peer Table ..........................................   14
7 Acknowledgements ......................................   17
8 References ............................................   18
































Malkin and Baker       Expires: 31Jan92             [Page 20]
