
 



Network Working Group                                         E. Stephan 

Internet Draft                                        France Telecom R&D 

Document: draft-ietf-ippm-metrics-registry-01.txt          June 24, 2002 

                                                                         

 
 
                         IPPM metrics registry  
    
Status of this Memo 
 
   This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with 
   all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026 [1]. 
    
   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering 
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups. Note that other 
   groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts. 
   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months 
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any 
   time. It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference 
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress." 
    
   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at 
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt. 
    
   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at 
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html. 
    
    
Abstract 
    
   This memo defines a registry of the IPPM working group metrics. It 
   provides an OBJECT IDENTIFIER to each metric currently standardized 
   by the IPPM WG. It defines the rules for the identification of the 
   metrics standardized in the future.  
    
Table of Contents 
    
   1.      Introduction................................................2 
   2.      The IPPM Framework..........................................2 
   3.      Overview....................................................2 
   4.      IPPM metrics Registry framework.............................2 
   4.1.    Metrics registry format.....................................3 
   4.2.    Metrics specified in a RFC..................................3 
   4.3.    Metrics specified in a WG draft.............................4 
   4.4.    Metrics specified in other documents........................5 
   5.      Initial IPPM registry.......................................5 
   6.      References.................................................12 
   7.      Author's Addresses.........................................12 
    
    

 
Stephan          Informational - Expires December 2002         [Page 1] 
 
 
Internet Draft           IPPM metrics registry                June 2002 
                                     
                                     
1. Introduction 
    
   This memo defines a registry of the IPPM working group metrics. It 
   provides an OBJECT IDENTIFIER to each metric currently standardized 
   by the IPPM WG. It defines the rules for the identification of the 
   metrics standardized in the future.  
    
2. The IPPM Framework 
    
   The IPPM Framework consists in four major components: 
    
        + A general framework for defining performance metrics, 
        described  in the Framework for IP Performance Metrics, RFC 
        2330; 
         
        + A set of standardized metrics, which conform to this 
        framework. The IPPM Metrics for Measuring Connectivity, RFC 2678 
        [2]. The One-way Delay Metric for IPPM, RFC 2679 [3]. The One-
        way Packet Loss Metric for IPPM, RFC 2680 [4]. The Round-trip 
        Delay Metric for IPPM, RFC 2681 [5]; 
 
        + Emerging metrics which are being specified in respect of this 
        framework; 
 
        + The IPPM-REPORTING-MIB for reporting the results of the 
        measures and for interfacing heterogeneous measurement systems 
        with management entities. 
    
 
3. Overview 
    
   This memo defines a registry of the current metrics and a framework 
   for the integration of the future metrics for the following reasons: 
    
        + to permit metrics to be clearly referenced by MIBs or other 
        data models; 
         
        + Metrics identifiers are needed to allow measurement 
        interoperability; 
         
        + Specification of new metrics is a continuous process, special 
        care must be taken for the integration of the future 
        standardized metrics. 
    
4. IPPM metrics Registry framework 
 
MIBs need OBJECT INDENTIFIER to refer precisely to the standardized 
metrics. The registry associates an OBJECT IDENTIFIER to each metric. As 
an example oneWayDelay and oneWayDelayPoissonStream have different 
identifiers. 
    
 
Stephan          Informational - Expires December 2002         [Page 2] 
 
 
Internet Draft           IPPM metrics registry                June 2002 
                                     
                                     
The registry has three root branches. The category of the document 
determines the node the branch the metric is identified in: 
 
      + Metrics defined in a RFC are identified in the 'rfc' tree; 
      + Metrics defined in a draft of a working group are identified in 
the 'draft' tree; 
      + Metrics defined elsewhere may be identified in the 'other' tree. 
The name of the metric has to respect ASN.1 constraints. The name has to 
start with a lower case. The letter - is forbidden (more or less) in the 
name. In a way to preserve the readability of the metric name the 
letters following a - are forced to upper case. 
 
Sometime the name of the metric starts with 'Type-P'. It depends on the 
document not the semantic of the metric. In the registry it is removed 
from the name of the metric to reduce the length of the name and to 
uniforms the metrics names. 
 
Each sub-tree has specific rules to assign a node to a metric.  
 
Each metrics specification will include a section describing its metrics 
identifiers.  
 
IPPM metrics are numbered using the specifications submissions order and 
the metrics definitions order in each memo. 
 
4.1. Metrics registry format 
 
Each memo includes a registry where are identified the metrics. The name 
of the section where is defined the registry terminate by 'metrics 
registry'. The registry is defined using a MODULE-IDENTITY macro. Each 
metric is identify in the registry using a OBJECT-IDENTITY macro. The 
identification defines the metric name, status, reference and OBJECT 
IDENTIFIER. 
    
4.2. Metrics specified in a RFC 
    
4.2.1. Rules 
    
The metrics specified in a RFC are registered in the node rfc(1). 
 
They are numbered using the RFC order and the metrics definitions order 
in each memo. 
 
The value assigned to a metric is definitive and can not be reused. 
 
4.2.2. Current WG RFC integration in the registry 
    
These rules are applied to initiate the registry. The metrics already 
standardized are identified in the section 5 'IPPM metrics registry' of 
this memo. The registry definition should be respectful of the format 
defined in "4.1 Metrics registry format". 
 
Stephan          Informational - Expires December 2002         [Page 3] 
 
 
Internet Draft           IPPM metrics registry                June 2002 
                                     
                                     
  
4.2.3. Identification of the metrics standardized in future RFC 
    
The specification of metrics is a continuous process. The same rules are 
applied to number the metrics of the new RFC. The identifiers are 
included in the section 'Standard metrics registry' of the RFC. 
 
The status of the identifiers assigned previously to the draft 
corresponding to the new RFC are set up to 'obsolete' and may not be 
reassigned. 
 
4.3. Metrics specified in a WG draft 
 
Usually, metrics are implemented during the specification process. At 
this step, a metric is not identified as an IPPM metric. There is a need 
to provide temporary metric identifiers to facilitate software 
integration and to permit interoperability measurement among different 
implementations. Otherwise the interoperability will be extremely 
limited du to the fact that implementers will choose arbitrary values to 
identify the new metrics. 
    
4.3.1. Rules 
 
The metrics specified in an IPPM draft are registered in the node 
draft(2). 
    
A draft is more or less released two times a year. It looks ambiguous to 
use the chronological order of the successive drafts submissions to 
numbered the metrics because usually the metric name does not change 
among the different releases. On the other hand new metrics may be added 
in successive releases of a draft.  
    
4.3.2. Current WG drafts integration in the registry 
    
The current drafts are numbered using the submission orders of their 
current release and using the order of the metrics definition in each 
memo. 
 
The previous rules are applied to initiate the registry. The metrics 
specified in current WG drafts are identified in the section 5 'draft 
metrics registry' of this memo. The registry definition should be 
respectful of the format defined in "4.1 Metrics registry format". 
    
4.3.3. Identification of a metric added to an existing WG draft 
 
Despite new metrics are rarely created in successive releases of a 
draft, an arbitrary metric identifier may be provided by the IPPM WG to 
identify the new metric. 
 


 
Stephan          Informational - Expires December 2002         [Page 4] 
 
 
Internet Draft           IPPM metrics registry                June 2002 
                                     
                                     
The identifier is added in the section named 'Draft metrics registry' of 
the draft. The registry definition should be respectful of the format 
defined in "4.1 Metrics registry format". 
    
4.3.4. Identification of the metrics defined in future WG drafts  
    
They are numbered using the chronological orders of the first submission 
of the draft and using the order of the metrics definition in each memo. 
 
These identifiers are included in the draft in a section named 'Draft 
metrics registry'. The registry definition should be respectful of the 
format defined in "4.1 Metrics registry format". 
 
The name of the metric starts with 'draft' to clearly distinguish the 
draft OBJECT INDENTIFIER from the its future standard OBJECT 
INDENTIFIER.  
 
Example:  
 
Consider a IPPM WG draft that defines the multicast metric Type-P-
Multicast-Instantaneous-Hop-One-way-Delay.  
 
The name of this metric in the section 'Draft metrics registry' is 
'draftMulticastInstantaneousHopOneWayDelay'. When this draft will go to 
RFC, the metric name will become 'multicastInstantaneousHopOneWayDelay'. 
    
4.4. Metrics specified in other documents 
 
Other metrics may be associated with identifiers in the sub tree 
other(4). The identifiers are provided by the IPPM WG. 
 
These identifiers are included in the corresponding document in a 
section named 'IPPM registry identifiers'. The registry definition 
should be respectful of the format defined in "4.1 Metrics registry 
format". 
 
 
5. Initial IPPM registry 
    
   IPPM-METRICS-REGISTRY DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN 
    
   IMPORTS 
        MODULE-IDENTITY 
                FROM SNMPv2-SMI;                         
    
   ippmMetricsRegistry MODULE-IDENTITY 
       LAST-UPDATED "200206241100Z"    -- June 24, 2002 
        ORGANIZATION    "IPPM working Group" 
        CONTACT-INFO    "ippm@advanced.org" 
        DESCRIPTION      

 
Stephan          Informational - Expires December 2002         [Page 5] 
 
 
Internet Draft           IPPM metrics registry                June 2002 
                                     
                                     
   " This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base 
   (MIB) for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based 
   internets. In particular, it defines a registry of the IPPM working 
   group metrics." 
   REVISION      "200206241100z" 
   DESCRIPTION 
   "Each metric identifier is defined in a OBJECT IDENTITY macro." 
   ::= { ippm 1 }  
    
   -- 
   -- ippm      OBJECT IDENTIFIER       ::= XXXX -- To be assigned 
   -- 
    
   rfc          OBJECT IDENTIFIER       ::= { registry 1 }  
   draft        OBJECT IDENTIFIER       ::= { registry 2 }  
   other        OBJECT IDENTIFIER       ::= { registry 4 }  
    
   -- 
   -- Registry of the metrics of the IPPM WG RFCs 
   -- 
    
   -- 
   -- RFC 2678 " IPPM Metrics for Measuring Connectivity" 
   -- 
    
   instantaneousUnidirectionalConnectivity OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P-Instantaneous-Unidirectional-
   Connectivity metric." 
        REFERENCE "RFC2678, section 2." 
        ::={rfc 1} 
         
   instantaneousBidirectionalConnectivity OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P-Instantaneous-Bidirectional-
   Connectivity metric." 
        REFERENCE "RFC2678, section 3." 
         ::={rfc 2} 
          
   intervalUnidirectionalConnectivity OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P-Interval-Unidirectional-
   Connectivity metric." 
        REFERENCE "RFC2678, section 4." 
         ::= { rfc 3 } 
          
   intervalBidirectionalConnectivity OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS current 
 
Stephan          Informational - Expires December 2002         [Page 6] 
 
 
Internet Draft           IPPM metrics registry                June 2002 
                                     
                                     
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P-Interval-Bidirectional-
   Connectivity metric." 
        REFERENCE "RFC2678, section 5." 
         ::= { rfc  4 } 
          
   intervalTemporalConnectivity OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P1-P2-Interval-Temporal-
   Connectivity metric. " 
        REFERENCE "RFC2678, section 6." 
Type-P-One-way-Delay 
         ::= { rfc  5 } 

    
   -- 
   -- RFC 2679 "A One-way Delay Metric for IPPM" 
   -- 
    
   oneWayDelay OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P-One-way-Delay metric. " 
        REFERENCE "RFC2679, section 3." 
         ::= { rfc  6 } 
          
   oneWayDelayPoissonStream OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P-One-way-Delay-Poisson-Stream 
   metric. " 
        REFERENCE "RFC2679, section 4" 
         ::= { rfc  7 } 
          
   oneWayDelayPercentile OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P-One-way-Delay-Percentile metric." 
        REFERENCE "RFC2679, section 5.1." 
         ::= { rfc  8 } 
          
   oneWayDelayMedian OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P-One-way-Delay-Median metric." 
        REFERENCE "RFC2679, section 5.2." 
         ::= { rfc  9 } 
          
   oneWayDelayMinimum OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 

 
Stephan          Informational - Expires December 2002         [Page 7] 
 
 
Internet Draft           IPPM metrics registry                June 2002 
                                     
                                     
        "The identifier for the Type-P-One-way-Delay-Minimum metric. " 
        REFERENCE "RFC2679, section 5.3." 
         ::= { rfc 10 } 
          
   oneWayDelayInversePercentile OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P-One-way-Delay-Inverse-Percentile 
   metric. " 
        REFERENCE "RFC2679, section 5.4." 
         ::= { rfc 11 } 
          
   -- 
   -- RFC 2680  "One Way Packet Loss Metric for IPPM" 
   -- 
    
   oneWayPacketLoss OBJECT-IDENTITY
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P-One-way-Packet-Loss metric." 
        REFERENCE "RFC2680, section 2." 
         ::= { rfc 12 } 
          
   oneWayPacketLossPoissonStream OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P-One-way-Packet-Loss-Poisson-
   Stream metric." 
        REFERENCE "RFC2680, section 3." 
         ::= { rfc 13 } 
          
   oneWayPacketLossAverage OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P-One-way-Packet-Loss-Average 
   metric." 
        REFERENCE "RFC2680, section 4." 
         ::= { rfc 14 } 
          
   -- 
   -- RFC2681 "A Round-trip Delay Metric for IPPM" 
   -- 
 
   roundtripDelay OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P-Round-trip-Delay metric." 
        REFERENCE " section 2 of the rfc2681." 
         ::= { rfc 15 } 
          
   roundtripDelayPoissonStream OBJECT-IDENTITY 
 
Stephan          Informational - Expires December 2002         [Page 8] 
 
 
Internet Draft           IPPM metrics registry                June 2002 
                                     
                                     
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P-Round-trip-Delay-Poisson-Stream 
   metric." 
        REFERENCE "RFC2681, section 4." 
         ::= { rfc 16 } 
          
   roundtripDelayPercentile OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P-Round-trip-Delay-Percentile 
   metric." 
        REFERENCE "RFC2681, section 4.1." 
         ::= { rfc 17 } 
          
   roundtripDelayMedian OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P-Round-trip-Delay-Median metric." 
        REFERENCE "RFC2681, section 4.2." 
         ::= { rfc 18 } 
          
   roundtripDelayMinimum OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P-Round-trip-Delay-Minimum metric." 
        REFERENCE "RFC2681, section 4.3." 
         ::= { rfc 19 } 
          
   roundtripDelayInversePercentile OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The identifier for the Type-P-Round-trip-Inverse-Percentile 
   metric." 
        REFERENCE "RFC2681, section 4.4." 
         ::= { rfc 20 } 
    
   -- 
   -- Registry of the metrics of the IPPM WG drafts 
   -- 
    
   -- 
   -- One-way Loss Pattern Sample Metrics draft 
   -- 
    
   draftOneWayLossDistanceStream OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The draft identifier for the Type-P-One-Way-Loss-Distance-
   Stream metric." 
        REFERENCE "Work in progress" 
 
Stephan          Informational - Expires December 2002         [Page 9] 
 
 
Internet Draft           IPPM metrics registry                June 2002 
                                     
                                     
        ::={draft 1} 
         
   draftOneWayLossPeriodStream OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The draft identifier for the Type-P-One-Way-Loss-Period-Stream 
   metric." 
        REFERENCE "Work in progress" 
         ::={draft 2} 
                          
   draftOneWayLossNoticeableRate OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The draft identifier for the Type-P-One-Way-Loss-Noticeable-
   Rate metric." 
        REFERENCE "Work in progress" 
         ::= { draft  3 } 
          
   draftOneWayLossPeriodTotal OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The draft identifier for the Type-P-One-Way-Loss-Period-Total 
   metric." 
        REFERENCE "Work in progress" 
         ::= { draft  4 } 
          
   draftOneWayLossPeriodLengths OBJECT-IDENTITY
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The draft identifier for the Type-P-One-Way-Loss-Period-Lengths 
   metric." 
        REFERENCE "Work in progress" 
         ::= { draft  5 } 
          
   draftOneWayInterLossPeriodLengths OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The draft identifier for the Type-P-One-Way-Inter-Loss-Period-
   Lengths metric." 
        REFERENCE "Work in progress" 
         ::= { draft 6 } 
          
    
    
   -- 
   -- Network performance measurement with periodic streams draft 
   -- 
    
   draftOneWayDelayPeriodicStream OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
 
Stephan          Informational - Expires December 2002        [Page 10] 
 
 
Internet Draft           IPPM metrics registry                June 2002 
                                     
                                     
        "The draft identifier for the Type-P-One-way-Delay-Periodic-
   Stream metric." 
        REFERENCE "Work in progress" 
         ::= { draft 7 } 
    
    
   -- 
   -- IP Packet Delay Variation Metrics draft 
   -- 
    
   draftOneWayIpdv OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The draft identifier for the Type-P-One-way-ipdv metric." 
        REFERENCE "Work in progress" 
         ::= { draft 8 } 
          
   draftOneWayIpdvPoissonStream OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The draft identifier for the Type-P-One-way-ipdv-Poisson-stream 
   metric." 
        REFERENCE "Work in progress" 
         ::= { draft 9 } 
          
   draftOneWayIpdvPercentile OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The draft identifier for the Type-P-One-way-ipdv-percentile 
   metric." 
        REFERENCE "Work in progress" 
         ::= { draft 10 } 
          
   draftOneWayIpdvJitter OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The draft identifier for the Type-P-One-way-ipdv-jitter 
   metric." 
        REFERENCE "Work in progress" 
         ::= { draft 11 } 
          
   draftOneWayPeakToPeakIpdv OBJECT-IDENTITY 
        STATUS  current 
        DESCRIPTION 
        "The draft identifier for the Type-P-One-way-peak-to-peak-ipdv 
   metric." 
        REFERENCE "Work in progress" 
         ::= { draft 12 } 
    
   -- 
   -- Metrics registry from other documents 
 
Stephan          Informational - Expires December 2002        [Page 11] 
 
 
Internet Draft           IPPM metrics registry                June 2002 
                                     
                                     
   -- 
 
   END 
 
    
6. References 
    
 
   [1] Bradner, S., "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3", BCP 
      9, RFC 2026, October 1996. 
            
   [2] Mahdavi J. and V. Paxson, "IPPM Metrics for Measuring  
      Connectivity", RFC 2678, September 1999. 
    
   [3] Almes, G.,  Kalidindi, S.  and M. Zekauskas, "A One-way Delay 
      Metric for IPPM", RFC 2679, September 1999. 
    
   [4] Almes, G., Kalidindi, S. and M. Zekauskas, "A One-way Packet         
      Loss Metric for IPPM", RFC 2680, September 1999. 
    
   [5]Almes, G., Kalidindi, S. and M. Zekauskas, "A Round-trip Delay 
      Metric for IPPM.", RFC 2681, September 1999. 
    
    
    
7. Author's Addresses 
    
   Emile STEPHAN 
   France Telecom R & D 
   2 avenue Pierre Marzin               
   F-22307 Lannion cedex  
   Phone: (+ 33) 2 96 05 11 11 
   Email: emile.stephan@francetelecom.com 
    
    
Full Copyright Statement 
 

   "Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001). All Rights Reserved. 
    
   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to 
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it 
   or assist its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and 
   distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind, 
   provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are 
   included on all such copies and derivative works. However, this 
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing 
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other 
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of 
   developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for 
   copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be 


 
Stephan          Informational - Expires December 2002        [Page 12] 
 
 
Internet Draft           IPPM metrics registry                June 2002 
                                     
                                     
   followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than 
   English. 
    
   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be 
   revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns. 
    
   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an 
   "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING 
   TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING 
   BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION 
   HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
   MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 
    






































 
Stephan          Informational - Expires December 2002        [Page 13] 
 
 
