





                                                           S. Barkai
Internet Draft                                              G. Stupp
draft-barkai-scmp-00                                  Sheer Networks
Expires: 1 July 2003                                30 December 2002





                    Service Centric Management (SCM)




Status of this Memo

   This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with
   all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups. Note that other
   groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time. It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference mate-
   rial or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.


Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2002).  All Rights Reserved.

Abstract

   With the proliferation of IP based internetworking services to mass
   business and consumer markets carriers are faced with operational
   challenges in an extent never before experienced in previous LAN MAN
   or WAN environments.  To accommodate these new internetworking envi-
   ronments, carrier workflow management applications for service Ful-
   fillment, Assurance, and Billing (FAB) need to undergo major a tran-
   sition.  In essence applications need to transition from being per



Barkai                                                          [Page 1]

Internet Draft                                             December 2002


   technology centric to being service centric, as historic correspon-
   dence between technology and service is no longer true. Applications
   do not need to change in nature, since they still need to support
   inventory, CRM, order and other workflows.  However, applications
   need to include a service centric aspect as basis for these work-
   flows.

   Service Centric solutions can be shared by a wide range of management
   and workflow applications, rather than be re-invented by each one.
   Service Centric Management solutions must be distributed in order to
   cope with the massive scale and complexity challenges of the underly-
   ing networks.  Service Centric Management Protocol (SCMP) and distri-
   bution should be standardized to facilitate multi-vendor interoper-
   ability in this emerging space, allow for potential future embedding
   within NE, and to allow for Service Centric Management primitives to
   extend across Inter Carrier Interfaces (ICI) and inner carrier regu-
   latory bounds.


1.  Introduction

With the proliferation of IP based internetworking services to mass
business and consumer markets carriers are faced with operational chal-
lenges in an extent never before experienced in previous LAN MAN or WAN
environments.

In order to deliver end-to-end services carriers are extending millions
of access lines - DOCSIS,DSL, or GPRS, aggregating them using ATM and
Ethernet domains, and transporting them over WDM, SONET, and MPLS back-
bones.

A wide range of tunnelling protocols such as PPP, L2TP, and IP-Sec are
being used to map packets in and out of access, edge and core technology
domains.

For example, millions of mobile wireless data services are implemented
using BSC based GPRS, connected to DSL multiplexers, connected to ATM
switches, LAC-LNS BRAS aggregators, PE routers, P core routers and opti-
cal backbones.  In addition SNCDP, GTP, and LT2P tunnels are extensively
used across these various domains and thus add to the diversity and com-
plexity of the network.

To accommodate these new internetworking environments, carrier workflow
management applications for service Fulfillment, Assurance, and Billing
(FAB) need to undergo major a transition. In essence they need to tran-
sition from being per technology centric to being service centric.

Typical carrier management and workflow applications include:



Barkai                                                          [Page 2]

Internet Draft                                             December 2002


o    Inventory Management

o    Trouble Ticketing Management

o    Order Management

o    SLA Management

o    etc.

Since most services are becoming cross-domain and multi-technology, car-
rier applications can no longer relay on the historical correspondence
between service and technology. Applications do not need to change in
nature,
 since they still need to support inventory, CRM, order and other work-
flows.  However, applications need to include a service centric aspect
as basis for these workflows.

Service Centric Management aspects and basis include:


o    Comprehensive End-To-End Service Resources Reconciliation

o    Consistent End-To-End Service Configuration and Activation

o    Correlated End-To-End Service Monitoring and Detection

The transition of carrier management and workflow applications from
being Per Technology to being Service Centric poses great challenges. It
has been proved exceedingly difficult to implement management systems
that include service centric management aspects and withstands the huge
pressures of end-to-end network mass and complexity.

We claim that there is a set of challenges shared by most management
applications.  The absence of a general solution causes fragmentation,
loose integration, performance compromises, technology stove piping,
fragile structures and unprofitable carrier operations.


        OMS CRM TTM
        |\  /|/  /|
        | \/ / \/ |
        | /\/| /\ |
        |/ /\|/  \|
        TDM  ATM IP

Figure 1: Technology centric integration mesh is expensive
          and does not reflect IP over ATM over TDM service.



Barkai                                                          [Page 3]

Internet Draft                                             December 2002


2.  Service Centric Management Fabric (SCMF)

In this paper we suggest that a comprehensive end-to-end service centric
management basis over large diverse networks, by a range of carrier man-
agement applications, is attainable.  We suggest that current compro-
mises are not a necessary evil,  and that standard Service Centric solu-
tions can be shared by a wide range of management and workflow applica-
tions, rather than re-invented by each one.

We also suggest that shared and standard Service Centric solutions need
to be distributed.  Just as we don't expect a single server to provide
IP connectivity to millions of users (we distribute the task to switches
and routers), the task of comprehensive service centric end-to-end func-
tions can only be performed by a distributed Service Centric Management
Fabric (SCMF).  The pressures of end-to-end complexity and scale are
simply to great for any centralized entity.

The SCMF is therefore realized by multiple Service Centric Management
Units (SCMUs), whose number is proportional to the size of the network.
By employing Service Centric Management Protocol (SCMP) the SCMUs form a
scalable-shared SCMFabric.

The SCMF is not intended to be a FAB management application. Rather, it
offers a set of primitives that can be used by a wide range of manage-
ment applications. By offering these primitives the SCMF decouples the
overwhelming burden of network size and complexity from management
applications.

In a reference SCMP implementation existing management systems such as
trouble ticketing, CRM, inventory, and order management systems where
successfully integrated.  Moreover, 3rd parties developed new and unan-
ticipated applications as well, taking advantage of the same SCMF primi-
tives.

Any standard, application oriented, north bound API such as TMF 608/513
can be used to access the SCMF primitives.  Further discussion on this
topic will be done in a separate paper.  South bound manager-agent ori-
ented API are used between the SCMF and the network elements.  These can
be standard SNMP and/or CLI commands used extensively today.

        OMS CRM TroubleTM InventoryM SLAM ..
         |   |     |        |        |
        ______________________________
        |            SCMF            |
        |____________________________|
         |      |      |    |      |
        BBand  TDM   ATM   IP    VoXX




Barkai                                                          [Page 4]

Internet Draft                                             December 2002


Figure 2: Service Centric Management Fabric.
          North clients server primitives API. South manager agents FCAPs API.


3.  Service Centric Management Primitives


The SCMF offers a set of primitives that support a wide range of service
management and FAB applications, existing and new ones.  It is expected
that additional primitives will be evolving as time progresses and addi-
tional application bottlenecks can be factored into the distributed
SCMF.

To date we have identified the following primitives:

Reconciliation - The discovery and up-to-date knowledge of all existing
network resources and services configured in the Network Elements (NEs).

This includes:

o    All NE interfaces such as Ethernet, SONET, ATM, IP etc.


o    Interface stacking such as IP over ATM over SONET over WDM over
     fiber, or IP over HDLC over fiber.


o    All forwarding entities such as multiplexing, switching, and rout-
     ing, dot1D, BGP, NNI etc defined over the interface stacks.  For
     example, bridging between 5 stacks, routing between bridges and 2
     other stacks.


o    All cross NE relationships in the network, e.g., far-end interfaces
     and next hop routing or bridging, in every interface and every
     layer. We call this generalization of the physical topology the
     interoperability topology of the network.

Reconciliation is a continues process as it needs to reflect in near-
real-time HW and SW configuration changes in the network.

Activation - The design, assign, and configuration of differentiated
services in the network. Service profiles may specify any aspect, stan-
dard or proprietary, of any interface and any forwarding entity, in any
of the NEs along the calculated path. The calculation of optimal path
and service profile constraints is performed in near-real-time.  Activa-
tion can be invoked in parallel in multiple locations in the SCMFabric.
Integrity must be maintained especially in cases where multiple



Barkai                                                          [Page 5]

Internet Draft                                             December 2002


activated paths are crossed asynchronously.

Detection - The sensing of network operation conditions. The root isola-
tion of a malfunction, disconnection or overload failures. Data path
tracing of the fault to its side-effect and propagation to impacted ser-
vices. The suppression of side-effect alarms and bundling of ripple
impacts with the root failure without manual rule programming or intro-
duction of network foreign computation at the SCMF level.




4.  Service Centric Management Units (SCMUs)


SCMUs play mostly an administrative roll in the  SCM solution.  Their
main function is to hold a set of SCMAgents, which communicate via SCMP
within the SCMU or between the SCMUs.  The SCMU main task is to support
the SCM hardware workstation platforms, allow for administrative IP or
IP-Sec connectivity and allow for SCMF general administration.

In reference implementations the SCMUnits are extremely important for
maintaining solution's software versions, security, density, and redun-
dancy. These mechanisms will be discussed in a separate context. In the
reference SCMP implementation we bundle about 1000 SCMAgents per SCMUnit
covering about 100K ports per unit.

In reference implementations we also find it best to limit direct IP or
IP-Sec SCMU administrative connectivity to about 10 SCMUnits (about 10K
NEs, or 1M ports). Beyond this number it is best to have "Core" SCMUs
relay SCMP messages to "Edge" SCMUs. For example for a 10M port solution
it is best to mesh 10 core SCMUs each connected to an edge group of
additional 10 SCMUs, and so on.

        North client-server interface
         |
        _|____      _______    ____________________
        |      |     |      |   |                   |
        |      <SCMP>      <SCMP> SCMA <SCMP> SCMA  |
        | SCMU |     | SCMU |   |      SCMU         |
        |______|     |______|   |___________________|
         |
         |
        South manager-agent interface

        Figure 3: SCMFabric





Barkai                                                          [Page 6]

Internet Draft                                             December 2002


5.  Service Centric Management Agents (SCMAs)


The SCMAgents are the logical makings of the SCMFabric.  Each SCMAgent
may cover a single network element, where legacy domain managers may
function as an SCMA for the entire domain. The SCMA coverage is for the
purpose of end-to-end service management functionality only and does not
need to cover the complete NE device management functionality.

SCMAs are also referred to as autonomous agents since like routing
agents their primary communication is with other similar SCMAgents and
not with a manager.

The SCMAgents have the following states while operating as part of the
SCMFabric:


o    Initialization State - When the (right) SCMAgent initializes, it
     uses standard CLI and/or SNMP to learn the interfaces, stacking,
     and forwarding configuration of the NE. (right SCMAgent determined
     by SCMU).

     This step is repeated whenever a configuration change is detected.
     Each interface is assigned a SCMXID, which must be unique within
     the entire SCMFabric. In the reference SCMP implementation we use
     an algorithmic  method to produce SCMXIDs and we use a graph for
     representing interface, stacking, and forwarding NE relationships
     in the SCMAgent. This implementation is optional.





                       _   _
                ------|R|-|_|
                |          |
            _   _   _      _
           |_|-|B|-|_|    |_|
            |       |      |
            _       _      _
           |_|     |_|    |_|

          Figure 4: Example SCMA representation of Bridging 2 stacks,
                    and routing bridge to 3rd stack


o    Acquaintance State - after it initializes, the SCMA is part of the
     administrative network of the SCMFabric. However, in order to



Barkai                                                          [Page 7]

Internet Draft                                             December 2002


     function and help perform most of the SCMF primitive functions, it
     also needs to become part of the interoperability network of the
     SCMFabric. The interoperability network of the SCMFabric follows
     the interoperability topology of the various managed network lay-
     ers.

     To become part of the interoperability network, the SCMAgent com-
     putes a unique signature for every interface that may have a peer
     in another network element, and as consequence, in a peer SCMA.

     There may be multiple signature types (SCMSigT) for any given type
     of interface (IANA). The computation of signatures may involve pro-
     prietary intellectual property that needs to be shared by interop-
     erating  manufacturers of SCMus.

     Trivial signatures such as local and remote interface addresses
     carried by ILMI, BGP, or CDP will be specified in a different con-
     text.

     After SCMXID, SCMSigT, and SCMSigValue are published (on the admin-
     istrative SCMF Network) and discovered by a remote SCMA, the SCMA-
     gent becomes topologically connected to the acknowledging remote
     SCMA, and joins the interoperability SCMF Network.  This connection
     holds until network conditions change or interfaces in the NEs are
     disabled, removed or disconnected.

     Each SCMA may be connected to single/multiple SCMAs via single/mul-
     tiple interfaces and SCMXIDs.






                       _   _                       _   _   _
                ------|R|-|_| ................... |_|-|R|-|_|
                |          |                       |       |
            _   _   _      _       _   _   _       _       _
           |_|-|B|-|_|    |_|     |_|-|S|-|_|     |_|     |_|
            |       |      |       |       |       |       |
            _       _      _       _       _       _       _
           |_|     |_|    |_| ... |_|     |_| ... |_|     |_|

          Figure 5: Example 3 SCMAs Acquaintance(doted) Brouter, Switch, Router


o    Flow State - In this state the SCMA reacts to messages received via
     the interoperability and administrative links from the agent to the



Barkai                                                          [Page 8]

Internet Draft                                             December 2002


     rest of the fabric. The SCMA is expected to receive flow messages,
     infer their local significance and local service management
     required actions, and terminate or pass it to single/multiple peer
     SCMAs.

                                     flow>>
                             <<flow
             <------->SCMA <---------------------->SCMA
                     |    Interoperability Network|
                     |                            |
             Administrative Network               |
                     |                            |
                     |                            |
             .........SCMF ........................SCMF

     Figure 6: SCMAs in the administrative and interoperability networks.

     Activation, detection, and reconciliation queries generate multiple
     types of flows across the SCMFabric. For example an activation flow
     of find-best-path may be received by multiple SCMA interfaces and
     routed to other SCMAs with a local calculation.

     Similarly a detection flow may be received indicating a primary or
     secondary fault in a peer SCMA, impact further calculated by local
     SCMA, and terminated or routed to other SCMAs.

     Specific flows, as well as states that avoid loops or perform split
     horizon or other routing methodologies, are discussed separately.

     Activation flows are typically initiated by SCMAgents covering the
     end-points of a service. These flows run through the SCMF core
     along the topological links between SMCAgents. They will typically
     include a find stage and than reserve and commit stages.

     Detection flows are typically initiated from the SMCAs sensing a
     root fault and are propagated up the stacks, across forwarding
     entities to Peer-Agents and finally to the end-points of the
     impacted service.  They typically include a verification, expand
     and regress stages.

     Detailed discussion of flow states and message formats will be done
     separately. Experience in reference SCMP implementation shows that
     activation flows, due to their parallel and non blocking nature,
     have managed to reach the full capacity of the network to absorb
     configuration.  Likewise, detection flows yielded 1000s to 1 ratio
     of suppression between root fault and impacted services and side-
     effects. Again, due to their parallel nature, they have been able
     to absorb all the events the network can generate.



Barkai                                                          [Page 9]

Internet Draft                                             December 2002


                         _   _                      _   _   _
          Service  <<<<<|_|<|_|                    |_|>|_|>|_|>>>Service
                  |          ^                      ^       |
              _   _   _      _       _   _   _      _       _
             |_|-|_|-|_|    |_|     |_|-|_|-|_|    |_|     |_|
              |       |      ^       |       |      ^       |
              _       _      _       _       _      _       _
             |_|     |_|    |_|<<<<<|_|     |_|<<x>|_|     |_|


          Figure 7: Example SCMA Operation in SCMF x Detection Flow




                          _  _                      _   _   _
          Service  >>>>>>|_||_|                    |_|>|_|>|_|>>>Service
                  ^          V                      ^       |
              _   _   _      _       _   _   _      _       _
             |_|>|_|-|_|    |_|     |_|-|_|-|_|    |_|     |_|
              ^       |      V       |       |      ^       |
              _       _      _       _       _      _       _
          x>>|_|     |_|    |_|>>>>>|_|     |_|>>>>|_|     |_|


          Figure 8: Example SCMA Operation in SCMF Activation x Flow


6.  Service Centric Management Protocol Messages


SCMP messages are received by the SCMAs from other SCMAs on the SCMF
interoperability network formed by acquaintances.  SCMP messages are
also received by SCMAs on the SCMF administrative network.  The latter
are typically queries and flows initiated by the SCMF application server
adaptation.

In order not to limit the evolution of existing queries and flows and
creation of new types of queries and flows, as well as not to impound
the autonomous nature of each SCMA behavior, at this stage a relatively
broad SCMP message frame is laid out.

SCMP Message{
  SCMXID source
  SCMXID dest
  SCMXFT flow type
  SCMXFT flow subtype
  SCMXVB variable bind list }



Barkai                                                         [Page 10]

Internet Draft                                             December 2002


When flowing over the SCMF topological network the source and dest field
are required to correspond to the SMCXID of the acquainted interfaces of
the SCMAs.  These are recognized by the SCMF transport and delivered to
right SCMAs.

In order not impose entire reference implementation of SCMP prior to
further analysis flow types will be loosely described.

o Flow type: Acquaintance.
  Subtypes: Publish, Acknowledge, Hand-shake.
  SCMA required to:
    - Publish local SMXID Interfaces Signatures.
    - Acknowledge matching Signature with local interface SCMXID.
    - Hand-shake and acknowledgement to establish acquaintance.

o Flow type: Reconciliation Query
  Subtypes: Relational expression.
  SCMA required to:
    - Perform local part of query
    - Adjust and augment variable binding
    - Pass to other acquainted SCMAs

o Flow type: Activation
  Subtypes: Find, Reserve, Commit
  SCMA required to:
    - Address service profile and constraints in variable bind list
    - Forward augmented path metrics with added local costs
    - Forward augmented path metrics with local reservation
    - Forward augmented path commits after local NE configuration

o Flow type: Detection
  Subtypes: Verify, Expand, Retract
  SCMA required to:
    - Verify sensed flow not side-effect with acquainted SCMAs
    - Expand impact propagation to acquainted SCMAs
    - Retract back to root retracting flow form end-points

Further discussion on SCMP message syntax and semantics will be done
after further standard analysis.




7.  Service Centric Management Fabric Benefits


By supporting the above primitives in a distributed manner the SCMF sig-
nificantly improves the performance, and simplifies the integration of



Barkai                                                         [Page 11]

Internet Draft                                             December 2002


service management applications.

Operations done centrally today at sequential S-Time, are performed by
the SCMF in  parallel P-Time.  The theoretical asymptotes for network of
size N with proportional activation and fault rates are:


o    Reconciliation:  From S-Time N Log N , to P-Time Log N.

o    Activation: From S-Time N Log N, to P-Time Log N.

o    Detection: From S-Time N Log N to P-Time Log N.

In practice, because of high log basis (log N reflects the number of
hops in the network, which is usually 4-8) and structural constraints of
existing centralized systems it follows that the performance improvement
is much higher. In practice we get:



o    Reconciliation N Resources: S-Time N Square, Fixed P-Time.

o    Activation N Services: S-Time N Square, Fixed P-Time.

o    Detection N Impacts: S-Time N Square, Fixed P-Time.

As an example, verification of a VPN with 2000 sites for connectivity
and leak security (each peer test 1 sec.) is completed by the reference
SCMF within minutes while a naive centralized test may take days.

The additional benefit is the partition of mass complexity into a set of
well defined and contained smaller problems with simpler solutions that
emerege into a service wide solution.


8.  Service Centric Summary


In today's networks, where services are not single technology based and
their number rises to millions per network, new standard based protocol
can alleviate significant operational pain-points and allow for a shared
distributed solution to till now unsolved problems.

The standardization process is aimed to build detailed supported indus-
try basis for a distributed service centric management methodology. The
Service Centric Management Protocol (SCMP) should be standardized to
facilitate multi-vendor interoperability in this emerging space, to
allow for potential future embedding within NE, and to allow for Service



Barkai                                                         [Page 12]

Internet Draft                                             December 2002


Centric Management primitives to extend across Inter Carrier Interfaces
(ICI) and inner carrier regulatory bounds.

The SCMP framework adopts scalable concepts from network control planes
such as, "Hello" routing packet, "RSVP" activation packets, and  OAM
cell flows.  The SCMP applies these methodologies
 to generate uniform fabric for end-to-end service management that acts,
"thinks", and scales like a network. The outcome is therefore capable of
dealing with the huge operational challenges that today's networks cre-
ate.




9.  AUTHOR ADDRESS


    Sharon Barkai
    Sheer Networks
    Azrieli Center I Round Tower
    132 Petach Tikva rd.
    Tel Aviv, 67021 ISRAEL
    Tel. +972-3-6074111
    Fax. +972-3-6074112

    EMail: Sharon_Barkai@sheernetworks.com

























Barkai                                                         [Page 13]

