

DNSOP Working Group                                         Levon Esibov
INTERNET-DRAFT                                               Stuart Kwan
Category: Best Current Practice                                Microsoft
<draft-esibov-dnsop-suppress-queries-00.txt>
February 22, 2001


 Suppressing DNS queries to the names under reserved top level domains



Status of this Memo 

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet- Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.


    
    
This document specifies an Internet Best Current Practices for the
Internet Community, and requests discussion and suggestions for
improvements.  Distribution of this memo is unlimited. 


Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.

Abstract

A set of top level domains was recently reserved for testing and
documentation purposes. Currently, there is work in progress to reserve
a top level domain to be used only in private networks. It is inevitable
that some DNS queries for the names under these domains will leak to the
Internet. To prevent the load of such ineffectual queries on the root
servers, special configuration of the public DNS servers is recommended
in this document.





Esibov & Kwan                     BCP                           [Page 1]

INTERNET-DRAFT             Suppressing DNS queries      22 February 2001



1.  Introduction

RFC 2606 [RFC2606] specifies a set of top level domains reserved for
testing and documentation purposes. Currently, there is work in progress
to reserve a top level domain to be used only in private networks [PRI].
Queries for any names under these domains are not intended to be
resolved on the Internet. It is inevitable that some DNS queries for the
names under these domains will leak to the Internet. To prevent the load
of such ineffectual queries on the root DNS servers, special
configuration of the public DNS servers is recommended in this document.


In this document, the key words "MAY", "MUST,  "MUST  NOT", "optional",
"recommended",  "SHOULD",  and  "SHOULD  NOT",  are to be interpreted as
described in [RFC2119].



2. Recommended configuration of the DNS servers.

To prevent DNS queries for names under the reserved domains (domains
with names not intended to be resolved on the Internet) from being sent
to the root DNS servers, it is recommended that DNS servers on the
Internet are configured as primary for all of the zones corresponding to
the reserved domains. These zones do not need to contain any data except
the required SOA and NS records at the top of the zone.

List of such zones includes
              .test
           .example
           .invalid
         .localhost
               .pri (not reserved yet)


Such a list may grow with the introduction of new reserved domains that
are not intended for use on the Internet.



3. Example

When a query for any record set for a name host.example is received by
any Internet DNS server, the DNS server will respond to such a query
with a NXDOMAIN response, thus suppressing unnecessary recursive
resolution and saving network resources, the resources on the DNS server
itself, and the resources on the root servers.





Esibov & Kwan                     BCP                           [Page 2]

INTERNET-DRAFT             Suppressing DNS queries      22 February 2001


4.  IANA Considerations

IANA's consideration is not required. The list of the domains for which
the zones should be created is reserved by IANA.



5.  Security Considerations

This draft does not introduce any additional security concerns.



6.  Acknowledgements

We would like to thank Michael Cretzman for his review of this document.



7.  Authors' Addresses

Levon Esibov
Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA 98052

EMail: levone@microsoft.com



Stuart Kwan
Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA 98052

EMail: skwan@microsoft.com



8.  References

[RFC 2606] Eastlake & Panitz, "Reserved Top Level DNS Names" BCP32,
           RFC 2606, June 1999. 

[PRI]      Coffey, S., Strain, S., Esibov, L., "DNS Top Level Domain
           For Private Networks in the Domain Name System (DNS UPDATE)",
           draft-coffeystrain-dnsext-privatednstld-00.txt, work in 
           progress.

[RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
           Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.


Esibov & Kwan                     BCP                           [Page 3]

INTERNET-DRAFT             Suppressing DNS queries      22 February 2001



9.  Intellectual Property Statement

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed to  pertain
to the implementation or use of the technology described in this
document or the extent to which any license under such rights might or
might not be available; neither does it represent that it has made any
effort to identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's
procedures with respect to rights in standards-track and standards-
related documentation can be found in BCP-11.  Copies of claims of
rights made available for publication and any assurances of licenses to
be made available, or the result of an attempt made to obtain a general
license or permission for the use of such proprietary rights by
implementors or users of this specification can be obtained from the
IETF Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights
which may cover technology that may be required to practice this
standard.  Please address the information to the IETF Executive
Director.



10.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.
This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.  The limited permissions granted above are
perpetual and will not be revoked by the Internet Society or its
successors or assigns.  This document and the information contained
herein is provided on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE
INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."



11.  Expiration Date

This memo is filed as <draft-esibov-dnsext-dynupdtld-00.txt>, and 
expires August 22, 2001.

Esibov & Kwan                     BCP                           [Page 4]
