
INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


                Cable Modem Management Information Base
                    for MCNS compliant Cable Modems
                draft-ietf-ipcdn-cable-modem-mib-00.txt

                      Mon Jul  7 10:32:27 PDT 1997


                         Guenter Roeck (editor)
                             cisco Systems
                            groeck@cisco.com





Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its Areas, and
its Working Groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as a "work in progress".

To view the entire list of current Internet-Drafts, please check the
"1id-abstracts.txt" listing contained in the Internet-Drafts Shadow
Directories on ftp.is.co.za (Africa), ftp.nordu.net (Europe),
munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim), ds.internic.net (US East Coast), or
ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast).

Abstract

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in the Internet
community.  In particular, it defines a basic set of managed objects for
SNMP-based management of MCNS compliant Cable Modems.

This memo specifies a MIB module in a manner that is compliant to the
SNMPv2 SMI.  The set of objects is consistent with the SNMP framework
and existing SNMP standards.

This memo does not specify a standard for the Internet community.

This memo is a product of the IPCDN working group within the Internet
Engineering Task Force.  Comments are solicited and should be addressed
to the working group's mailing list at ipcdn@terayon.com and/or the
author.



Expires January 1998                                            [Page 1]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


Table of Contents


1 The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework .........................    3
2 Object Definitions ..............................................    3
3 Overview ........................................................    4
3.1 Structure of the MIB ..........................................    4
3.2 Management requirements .......................................    4
3.2.1 Handling of Software upgrades ...............................    4
3.2.2 Events and Traps ............................................    5
3.2.3 Trap Throttling .............................................    5
3.2.3.1 Trap rate throttling ......................................    5
3.2.3.2 Limiting the trap rate ....................................    6
3.3 Protocol Filters ..............................................    6
4 Definitions .....................................................    7
5 Acknowledgments .................................................   30
6 References ......................................................   30
7 Security Considerations .........................................   30
8 Author's Address ................................................   31


































Expires January 1998                                            [Page 2]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


1.  The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework

The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework presently consists of three
major components.  They are:

o    the SMI, described in RFC 1902 [1] - the mechanisms used for
     describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.

o    the MIB-II, STD 17, RFC 1213 [2] - the core set of managed objects
     for the Internet suite of protocols.

o    the protocol, RFC 1157 [3] and/or RFC 1905 [4], - the protocol for
     accessing managed objects.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.


2.  Object Definitions

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) defined in the
SMI.  In particular, each object type is named by an OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
an administratively assigned name.  The object type together with an
object instance serves to uniquely identify a specific instantiation of
the object.  For human convenience, we often use a textual string,
termed the descriptor, to refer to the object type.

























Expires January 1998                                            [Page 3]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


3.  Overview

This MIB provides a set of objects required for the management of MCNS
compliant Cable Modems (CM).  The specification is derived from the MCNS
Radio Frequency Interface specification [6].


3.1.  Structure of the MIB

This MIB is structured in six groups:

o    The docsCmBase group extends the MIB-II 'system' group with objects
     needed for cable modem system management.

o    The docsCmNmAccessGroup provides a minimum level of SNMP access
     security (see Section 3 of [8]).

o    The docsCmSoftware group provides information for network-
     downloadable software upgrades.

o    The docsCmServer group provides information about the progress of
     the interaction with various provisioning servers.

o    The docsCmEvent group provides control and logging for event
     reporting

o    The docsCmFilter group configures filters at link layer and IP
     layer for bridged data traffic.


3.2.  Management requirements

3.2.1.  Handling of Software upgrades

The Cable Modem software upgrade process is documented in [6].  From a
network management station, the operator:

o    sets mcnscmSwServer to the address of the TFTP server for software
     upgrades

o    sets mcnscmSwFilename to the file pathname of the software upgrade
     image

o    sets mcnscmSwAdminStatus to upgrade-from-mgt

One reason for the SNMP-initiated upgrade is to allow loading of a
temporary software image (e.g., special diagnostic software) that
differs from the software normally used on that modem without changing
the provisioning database.

Note that software upgrades should not be accepted blindly by the cable
modem. The cable modem may refuse an upgrade if:


Expires January 1998                                            [Page 4]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


o    The download is incomplete.

o    The file contents are incomplete or damaged.

o    The software is not intended for that hardware device (may include
     the case of a feature set that has not been purchased for this
     device).


3.2.2.  Events and Traps

Any system implementing this MIB must support reporting events using
SNMP traps. Other means of event reporting are outside the scope of this
document.

The definition and coding of events is vendor-specific.  In deference to
the network operator who must troubleshoot multi-vendor networks, the
circumstances and meaning of each event should be reported as human-
readable text.  Vendors SHOULD provide time-of-day clocks in CMs to
provide useful timestamping of events.

For each vendor-specific event that is reportable via TRAP, the vendor
must create an enterprise-specific trap definition.  Trap definitions
MUST include the event reason encoded as DisplayString and should be
defined as:

trapName NOTIFICATION-TYPE
        OBJECTS {
            ifIndex,
            eventReason,
            other useful objects
        }
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "trap description"
        ::= Object Id


3.2.3.  Trap Throttling

The CM and CMTS MUST provide support for trap message throttling as
described below.  The network operator can employ message rate
throttling or trap limiting by manipulating the appropriate MIB
variables.


3.2.3.1.  Trap rate throttling

Network operators may employ either of two rate control methods.  In the
first method, the device ceases to send traps when the rate exceeds the
specified maximum message rate.  It resumes sending traps only if
reactivated by a network management station request.


Expires January 1998                                            [Page 5]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


In the second method, the device resumes sending traps when the rate
falls below the specified maximum message rate.

The network operator configures the specified maximum message rate by
setting the measurement interval (in seconds), and the maximum number of
traps to be transmitted within the measurement interval.  The operator
can query the operational throttling state (to determine whether traps
are enabled or blocked by throttling) of the device, as well as query
and set the administrative throttling state (to manage the rate control
method) of the device.


3.2.3.2.  Limiting the trap rate

Network operators may wish to limit the number of traps sent by a device
over a specified time period.  The device ceases to send traps when the
number of traps exceeds the specified threshold.  It resumes sending
traps only when the measurement interval has passed.

The network operator defines the maximum number of traps he is willing
to handle and sets the measurement interval to a large number (in
hundredths of a second).  For this case, the administrative throttling
state is set to stop at threshold which is the maximum number of traps.

See "Techniques for Managing Asynchronously Generated Alerts" [7] for
further information.


3.3.  Protocol Filters

The Cable Modem MIB provides objects for both LLC and IP protocol
filters.  The LLC protocol filter entries can be used to limit CM
forwarding to a restricted set of network-layer protocols (such as IP,
IPX, NetBIOS, and Appletalk).  The IP protocol filter entries can be
used to restrict upstream or downstream traffic based on source and
destination IP addresses, transport-layer protocols (such as TCP, UDP,
and ICMP), and source and destination TCP/UDP port numbers. The CM
should support a minimum of ten LLC protocol filter entries, and ten IP
protocol filter entries.














Expires January 1998                                            [Page 6]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


4.  Definitions


DOCS-CM-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
        MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE,
        IpAddress, Unsigned32, Counter32, TimeTicks
                FROM SNMPv2-SMI
        DisplayString, RowStatus, DateAndTime
                FROM SNMPv2-TC
        OBJECT-GROUP, MODULE-COMPLIANCE
                FROM SNMPv2-CONF
        InterfaceIndexOrZero
                FROM IF-MIB
        transmission
                FROM RFC1213-MIB;

docsCmMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
        LAST-UPDATED    "9707071029Z" -- Jul 07, 1997
        ORGANIZATION    "IETF IPCDN Working Group"
        CONTACT-INFO
            "        Guenter Roeck
             Postal: cisco Systems
                     170 West Tasman Drive
                     San Jose, CA 95134
                     U.S.A.
             Phone:  +1 408 527 3143
             E-mail: groeck@cisco.com"
        DESCRIPTION
            "This is the MIB Module for MCNS-compliant cable modems and
             cable-modem termination systems."
        ::= { transmission 123 }
-- Editor's note: This is not a valid assignment. Final value is TBD,
-- and will not reside in the transmission subtree.

docsCmMIBObjects  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { docsCmMIB 1 }
docsCmBase OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { docsCmMIBObjects 1 }

--
-- For the following object, there is no concept in the
-- RFI specification corresponding to a backup CMTS. The
-- enumeration is provided here in case someone is able
-- to define such a role or device.
--

docsCmRole OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {
            cm(1),
            cmtsActive(2),
            cmtsBackup(3)
        }


Expires January 1998                                            [Page 7]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Defines the current role of this device."
        ::= { docsCmBase 1 }

docsCmDateTime OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      DateAndTime
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The date and time, with optional timezone information."
        ::= { docsCmBase 2 }

docsCmResetNow OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {
            reset(1),
            ready(2)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Setting this object to reset(1) causes the device to reset."
        ::= { docsCmBase 3 }

docsCmSerialNumber OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      DisplayString
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The manufacturer's serial number for this device."
        ::= { docsCmBase 4 }

docsCmSTPControl OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {
            stEnabled(1),
            noStFilterBpdu(2),
            noStPassBpdu(3)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "This object controls operation of the spanning tree protocol
             (as distinguished from transparent bridging). If set to st-
             enabled(1) then the spanning tree protocol is enabled, subject
             to bridging constraints. If no-st-filter-bpdu(2), then spanning
             tree is not active, and Bridge PDUs received are discarded. If
             no-st-pass-bpdu(3) then spanning tree is not active and Bridge
             PDUs are transparently forwarded. Note that a device need not
             implement all of these options, but that no-st-filter-bpdu(2) is
             required."
        ::= { docsCmBase 5 }


Expires January 1998                                            [Page 8]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


--
-- The following table provides one level of security for access to the
-- device by network management stations. Also, see the security section
-- in the text above. Note also that access is also constrained by the
-- community strings and any vendor-specific security.
--

docsCmNmAccessTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF DocsCmNmAccessEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "This table controls access to SNMP objects by network
             management stations."
        ::= { docsCmMIBObjects 2 }

docsCmNmAccessEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      DocsCmNmAccessEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Controls access to SNMP objects by a particular network
             management station. For each entry in this table, the
             contents are not readable unless the management station
             has read-write permission."
        INDEX { docsCmNmAccessIndex  }
        ::= {  docsCmNmAccessTable 1 }

DocsCmNmAccessEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        docsCmNmAccessIndex         INTEGER,
        docsCmNmAccessIp            IpAddress,
        docsCmNmAccessIpMask        IpAddress,
        docsCmNmAccessCommunity     DisplayString,
        docsCmNmAccessControl       INTEGER,
        docsCmNmAccessInterfaces    OCTET STRING
}

docsCmNmAccessIndex OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER (1..2147483647)
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Index used to order the application of access entries."
        ::= { docsCmNmAccessEntry 1 }

docsCmNmAccessIp OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      IpAddress
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address (or subnet) of the network management station.
             The address 255.255.255.255 is defined to mean any NMS. If traps


Expires January 1998                                            [Page 9]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


             are enabled for this entry, then the value must be the address
             of a specific device."
        DEFVAL { 'ffffffff'h }
        ::= { docsCmNmAccessEntry 2 }

docsCmNmAccessIpMask OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      IpAddress
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The IP subnet mask of the network management stations. If traps
             are enabled for  this entry, then the value must be
             255.255.255.255."
        DEFVAL { 'ffffffff'h }
        ::= { docsCmNmAccessEntry 3 }

docsCmNmAccessCommunity OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      DisplayString
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The community string to be matched for access by this entry. If
             set to the null string then any community string will match."
        DEFVAL { "public" }
        ::= { docsCmNmAccessEntry 4 }

docsCmNmAccessControl OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX         INTEGER {
            none(1),
            read(2),
            readWrite(3),
            roWithTraps(4),
            rwWithTraps(5),
            trapsOnly(6)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Specifies the type of access allowed to this NMS. Setting this
             object to none(1) causes the table entry to be destroyed. Read
             (2) allows access by 'get' and 'get-next' PDUs.  ReadWrite(3)
             allows access by 'set' as well. RoWithtraps(4), rwWithTraps(5),
             and trapsOnly(6) control distribution of Trap PDUs transmitted
             by this device."
        DEFVAL { read }
        ::= { docsCmNmAccessEntry 5 }

-- The syntax of the following object was copied from RFC1493,
-- dot1dStaticAllowedToGoTo.

docsCmNmAccessInterfaces OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 10]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Specifies the set of interfaces from which requests from this
             NMS will be accepted.
             Each octet within the value of this object specifies a set of
             eight interfaces, with the first octet specifying ports 1
             through 8, the second octet specifying interfaces 9 through
             16, etc.  Within each octet, the most significant bit
             represents the lowest numbered interface, and the least
             significant bit represents the highest numbered interface.
             Thus, each interface is represented by a single bit within
             the value of this object. If that bit has a value of '1'
             then that interface is included in the set.

             Note that entries in this table apply only to link-layer
             interfaces (e.g., Ethernet and CATV MAC). Upstream and
             downstream channel interfaces must not be specified."
--         DEFVAL is the bitmask corresponding to all interfaces
        ::= { docsCmNmAccessEntry 6 }

--
-- Editor's note: Needs update.
--  Procedures for using the following group are described in section
--  4.2.2
--

docsCmSoftware OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { docsCmMIBObjects 3 }

docsCmSwServer OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      IpAddress
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The address of the TFTP server used for software upgrades."
        ::= { docsCmSoftware 1 }

docsCmSwFilename OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      DisplayString (SIZE (0..32))
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The file name of the software image to be loaded into this
             device. Unless set via SNMP, this is the file name specified by
             the provisioning server that corresponds to the software version
             that is desired for this device. If unknown, the string
             '(unknown)' is returned."
        ::= { docsCmSoftware 2 }

docsCmSwAdminStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {
            upgradeFromMgt(1),


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 11]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


            allowProvisioningUpgrade(2)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "If set to upgradeFromMgt(1), the device initiates a TFTP
             download using docsCmSwFilename. On successfully receiving an
             image, the device will re-boot. On reboots, the device will
             disregard software information from the provisioning server. If
             set to allowProvisioningUpgrade(2), the device will use the
             software version information supplied by the provisioning server
             when next rebooting (this does not cause a re-boot). "
        ::= { docsCmSoftware 3 }

docsCmSwOperStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {
            inProgress(1),
            completeFromProvisioning(2),
            completeFromMgt(3),
            failed(4),
            other(5)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "InProgress(1) indicates that a TFTP download is underway,
             either as a result of a version mismatch at provisioning or as a
             result of a upgradeFromMgt request. CompleteFromProvisioning(2)
             indicates that the last software upgrade was a result of version
             mismatch at provisioning. CompleteFromMgt(3) indicates that the
             last software upgrade was a result of setting
             docsCmSwAdminStatus to upgradeFromMgt. Failed(4) indicates that
             the last attempted download failed, ordinarily due to TFTP
             timeout."
        ::= { docsCmSoftware 4 }


--
-- The following group describes server access and parameters used for
-- initial provisioning and bootstrapping.
--

docsCmServer OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { docsCmMIBObjects 4 }

docsCmServerBootState OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {
            operational(1),
            disabled(2),
            waitingForDhcpOffer(3),
            waitingForDhcpResponse(4),
            waitingForTimeServer(5),
            waitingForSecurity(6),


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 12]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


            waitingForTftp(7),
            refusedByCmts(8),
            forwardingDenied(9),
            other(10),
            unknown(11)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "If operational(1), the device has completed loading and
             processing of configuration parameters and the CMTS has
             completed the Registration exchange.
             If disabled(2) then the device was administratively disabled,
             possibly by being refused network access in the
             configuration file.
             If waitingForDhcpOffer(3) then a DHCP Discover has been
             transmitted and no offer has yet been received.
             If waitingForDhcpResponse(4) then a DHCP Request has been
             transmitted and no response has yet been received.
             If waitingForSecurity(5) then an exchange with a security
             server is needed and has not completed.
             If waitingForTftp(6) then a request to the TFTP parameter
             server has been made and no response received.
             If refusedByCmts(7) then the Registration Request/Response
             exchange with the CMTS failed.
             If forwardingDenied(8) then the registration process
             completed, but the network access option in the received
             configuration file prohibits forwarding. "
        ::= { docsCmServer 1 }

docsCmServerDhcp OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      IpAddress
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the DHCP server that assigned an IP address
             to this device. Returns 0.0.0.0 if DHCP was not used for IP
             address assignment."
        ::= { docsCmServer 2 }

docsCmServerTime OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      IpAddress
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the Time server (RFC-868)."
        ::= { docsCmServer 3 }

docsCmServerTftp OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      IpAddress
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 13]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


        DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the TFTP server responsible for downloading
             provisioning and configuration parameters to this device."
        ::= { docsCmServer 4 }

docsCmServerSecurity OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      IpAddress
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the security server, if present."
        ::= { docsCmServer 5 }

docsCmServerConfigFile OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      DisplayString
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The name of the device configuration file read from the TFTP
             server."
        ::= { docsCmServer 6 }

--
--  Event Reporting
--

docsCmEvent OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { docsCmMIBObjects 5 }

docsCmEvControl OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {
            resetLog(1),
            useDefaultReporting(2)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Setting this object to resetLog(1) empties the event log. All
             data is deleted. Setting it to useDefaultReporting(2) returns
             all event priorities to their factory-default reporting."
        ::= { docsCmEvent 1 }

docsCmEvSyslog OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      IpAddress
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the Syslog server. If 0.0.0.0, syslog
             transmission is inhibited."
        ::= { docsCmEvent 2 }

docsCmEvThrottleAdminStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 14]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


            unconstrained(1),
            maintainBelowThreshold(2),
            stopAtThreshold(3),
            inhibited(4)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Controls the transmission of traps and syslog messages with
             respect to the trap pacing threshold. unconstrained(1) causes
             traps to be transmitted without regard to the threshold
             settings. maintainBelowThreshold(2) causes trap transmission to
             be suppressed if the number of traps would otherwise exceed the
             threshold. stopAtThreshold(3) causes trap transmission to cease
             at the threshold, and not resume until directed to do so.
             inhibited(4) causes all trap transmission to be suppressed.

             Writing to this object resets the thresholding state."
        ::= { docsCmEvent 3 }

docsCmEvThrottleOperStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {
            inhibited(1),
            operational(2)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Indicates whether or not trap and syslog transmission is
             currently inhibited due to thresholds and
             docsCmEvThrottleAdminStatus."
        ::= { docsCmEvent 4 }

docsCmEvThrottleThreshold OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Unsigned32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Number of trap/syslog events per docsCmEvThrottleInterval to be
             transmitted before throttling."
        ::= { docsCmEvent 5 }

docsCmEvThrottleInterval OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TimeTicks
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The interval over which the trap threshold applies."
        ::= { docsCmEvent 6 }

--
-- The following table controls the reporting of the various classes of


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 15]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


-- events. For each event priority,
-- a combination of logging and reporting mechanisms may be chosen. The
-- mapping of event types
-- to priorities is vendor-dependent. Vendors may also choose to allow
-- the user to control that mapping
-- through proprietary means.

docsCmEvControlTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF DocsCmEvControlEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Allows control of the reporting of event classes."
        ::= {  docsCmEvent 7 }


docsCmEvControlEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      DocsCmEvControlEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Allows configuration of the reporting mechanisms for a
             particular event priority."
        INDEX { docsCmEvPriority }
        ::= { docsCmEvControlTable 1 }

DocsCmEvControlEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        docsCmEvPriority        INTEGER,
        docsCmEvReporting       INTEGER
}

docsCmEvPriority OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {
            emergency(1),
            alert(2),
            critical(3),
            error(4),
            warning(5),
            notice(6),
            information(7),
            debug(8)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The priority level that is controlled by this entry."
        ::= { docsCmEvControlEntry 1 }

docsCmEvReporting OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {
            noReporting(1),
            localLogOnly(2),


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 16]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


            trapOnly(3),
            localLogAndTrap(4),
            syslogOnly(5),
            bothLogs(6),
            syslogAndTrap(7),
            bothLogsAndTrap(8)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Defines the action to be taken on occurrence of this event
             class. Implementations may not necessarily support all options
             for all event classes, but at minimum must allow traps and
             syslogging to be disabled."
        ::= { docsCmEvControlEntry 2 }

docsCmEventTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF DocsCmEventEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Contains a log of network and device events that may be
             of interest in fault isolation and troubleshooting."
        ::= {  docsCmEvent 8 }

docsCmEventEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      DocsCmEventEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Describes a network or device event that may be of
             interest in fault isolation and troubleshooting."
        INDEX { docsCmEvIndex }
        ::= { docsCmEventTable 1 }

DocsCmEventEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        docsCmEvIndex           INTEGER,
        docsCmEvFirstTime       DateAndTime,
        docsCmEvLastTime        DateAndTime,
        docsCmEvCount           Counter32,
        docsCmEvLevel           INTEGER,
        docsCmEvId              Unsigned32,
        docsCmEvText            DisplayString
}

docsCmEvIndex OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER (1..2147483647)
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Provides relative ordering of the objects in the event log.
             This object will always increase except when (a) the log is


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 17]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


             reset via docsCmEvControl, (b) the device reboots and does not
             implement nonvolatile storage for this log, or (c) it reaches
             the value 2^31. In all three cases the log is cleared and the
             next entry is 1."
        ::= { docsCmEventEntry 1 }

docsCmEvFirstTime OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      DateAndTime
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The time that this entry was created."
        ::= { docsCmEventEntry 2 }

docsCmEvLastTime OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      DateAndTime
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "If multiple events are reported via the same entry, the time
             that the last event for this entry occurred."
        ::= { docsCmEventEntry 3 }

docsCmEvCount OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Counter32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The number of consecutive event instances reported by this
             entry."
        ::= { docsCmEventEntry 4 }

docsCmEvLevel OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {
            emergency(1),
            alert(2),
            critical(3),
            error(4),
            warning(5),
            notice(6),
            information(7),
            debug(8)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The priority level of this event."
        ::= { docsCmEventEntry 5 }

--
-- Vendors will provide their own enumerations for the following.
-- The interpretation of the enumeration is unambiguous for a particular


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 18]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


-- value of the vendor's enterprise number in sysObjectID.
--

docsCmEvId OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Unsigned32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "For this product, uniquely identifies the type of event that is
             reported by this entry."
        ::= { docsCmEventEntry 6 }

docsCmEvText OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      DisplayString
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Provides a human-readable description of the event, including
             all relevant context (interface numbers, etc.)"
        ::= { docsCmEventEntry 7 }

docsCmFilter OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { docsCmMIBObjects 6 }

-- LLC filters can be defined on an inclusive or exclusive basis: CMs
-- can be configured to forward only
-- packets matching a set of layer three protocols,  or to drop packets
-- matching a set of layer three protocols.
-- CMs must support a minimum of ten LLC filter entries.

docsCmFilterLLCDefault OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {
            discard(1),
            accept(2)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "If set to discard(1), all packets matching an LLC filter will
             be discarded. If set to accept(2), only packets matching an LLC
             filter will be accepted for further processing (e.g.,
             bridging)."
        ::= { docsCmFilter 1 }

docsCmFilterLLCTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF DocsCmFilterLLCEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A list of filters to apply to (bridged) LLC traffic, which
             forwards or drops packets on the basis of the layer three
             protocol type."
        ::= { docsCmFilter 2 }


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 19]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


docsCmFilterLLCEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      DocsCmFilterLLCEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Describes a single filter to apply to (bridged) LLC traffic
             received on a specified interface. "
        INDEX { docsCmFilterLLCIndex }
        ::= { docsCmFilterLLCTable 1 }


DocsCmFilterLLCEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        docsCmFilterLLCIndex               INTEGER,
        docsCmFilterLLCControl             RowStatus,
        docsCmFilterLLCIfIndex             InterfaceIndexOrZero,
        docsCmFilterLLCProtocolType        INTEGER,
        docsCmFilterLLCProtocol            INTEGER,
        docsCmFilterLLCMatches             Counter32
        }

docsCmFilterLLCIndex OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER (1..2147483647)
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Index used for the identification of filters (note that LLC
             filter order is irrelevant)."
        ::= { docsCmFilterLLCEntry 1 }

docsCmFilterLLCControl OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RowStatus
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Controls and reflects the status of rows in this table."
        ::= { docsCmFilterLLCEntry 2}

docsCmFilterLLCIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      InterfaceIndexOrZero
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The entry interface to which this filter applies.
             The value corresponds to ifIndex for either a CATV MAC
             or other network interface. In Cable Modems, the default
             value is the customer side interface. In Cable Modem
             Termination Systems, this object has to be specified
             to create a row in this table."
        ::= { docsCmFilterLLCEntry 3 }

docsCmFilterLLCProtocolType OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 20]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


            ethertype(1),
            dsap(2)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The format of the value in docsCmFilterLLCProtocol: either a
             two-byte Ethernet Ethertype, or a one-byte 802.2 SAP value.
             EtherType(1) also applies to SNAP-encapsulated frames."
        DEFVAL { ethertype }
        ::= { docsCmFilterLLCEntry 4 }

docsCmFilterLLCProtocol OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..65535)
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The layer three protocol for which this filter applies.  The
             protocol value format depends on docsCmFilterLLCProtocolType.
             Note that for SNAP frames, etherType filtering is performed
             rather than DSAP=0xAA."
        DEFVAL { 0 }
        ::= { docsCmFilterLLCEntry 5 }

docsCmFilterLLCMatches OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Counter32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Counts the number of times this filter was matched."
        ::= { docsCmFilterLLCEntry 6 }

-- The default behavior for (bridged) packets that do not match IP
-- filters is defined by
-- docsCmFilterIpDefault.

docsCmFilterIpDefault OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {
            discard(1),
            accept(2)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "If set to discard(1), all packets not matching an IP filter
             will be discarded. If set to accept(2), all packets not matching
             an IP filter will be accepted for further processing (e.g.,
             bridging)."
        ::= { docsCmFilter 3 }

--
-- CMs must support a minimum of ten IP address filter entries.


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 21]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


--

docsCmFilterIpTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF DocsCmFilterIpEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "An ordered list of filters to apply to IP traffic. Filter
             application is ordered by the filter index, rather than by a
             best match algorithm. Packets which match no filters are
             discarded or forwarded according to the setting of
             docsCmFilterIpDefault."
        ::= { docsCmFilter 4 }

docsCmFilterIpEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      DocsCmFilterIpEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Describes a filter to apply to IP traffic received on a
             specified interface. Both source and destination addresses
             must match for the filter to apply."
        INDEX { docsCmFilterIpIndex }
        ::= { docsCmFilterIpTable 1 }

DocsCmFilterIpEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        docsCmFilterIpIndex             INTEGER,
        docsCmFilterIpStatus            RowStatus,
        docsCmFilterIpControl           INTEGER,
        docsCmFilterIpIfIndex           InterfaceIndexOrZero,
        docsCmFilterIpDirection         INTEGER,
        docsCmFilterIpBroadcast         INTEGER,
        docsCmFilterIpSaddr             IpAddress,
        docsCmFilterIpSmask             IpAddress,
        docsCmFilterIpDaddr             IpAddress,
        docsCmFilterIpDmask             IpAddress,
        docsCmFilterIpProtocol          INTEGER,
        docsCmFilterIpSourcePortLow     INTEGER,
        docsCmFilterIpSourcePortHigh    INTEGER,
        docsCmFilterIpDestPortLow       INTEGER,
        docsCmFilterIpDestPortHigh      INTEGER,
        docsCmFilterIpMatches           Counter32
        }

docsCmFilterIpIndex OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER (1..2147483647)
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Index used to order the application of filters."
        ::= { docsCmFilterIpEntry 1 }


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 22]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


docsCmFilterIpStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      RowStatus
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Controls and reflects the status of rows in this table."
        ::= { docsCmFilterIpEntry 2 }

docsCmFilterIpControl OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {
            discard(1),
            accept(2)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "If set to discard(1), all packets matching this filter will be
             discarded and scanning of the remainder of the filter list will
             be aborted. If set to accept(2), all packets matching this
             filter will be accepted for further processing (e.g., bridging)
             and scanning of the remainder of the filter list will be
             aborted. "
        DEFVAL { discard }
        ::= { docsCmFilterIpEntry 3 }

docsCmFilterIpIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      InterfaceIndexOrZero
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The entry interface to which this filter applies. The value
             corresponds to ifIndex for either a CATV MAC or other network
             interface."
--        DEFVAL for CMs is the customer-side (i.e., ethernet)
--                interface. Not defined for CMTSs.
        ::= { docsCmFilterIpEntry 4 }

docsCmFilterIpDirection OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {
            inbound(1),
            outbound(2)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Determines whether the filter is applied to inbound(1) or
             outbound(2) traffic."
        DEFVAL { inbound }
        ::= { docsCmFilterIpEntry 5 }

docsCmFilterIpBroadcast OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 23]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


            broadcastOnly(1),
            allPackets(2)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Determines whether the filter is applied to all traffic, or
             just to multicast and broadcast traffic."
        DEFVAL { allPackets }
        ::= { docsCmFilterIpEntry 6 }

docsCmFilterIpSaddr OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      IpAddress
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The source IP address, or portion thereof, that is to be
             matched for this filter."
        DEFVAL { '00000000'h }
        ::= { docsCmFilterIpEntry 7 }

docsCmFilterIpSmask OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      IpAddress
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A bit mask that is to be applied to the source address prior to
             matching. This mask is not necessarily the same as a subnet
             mask, but 1's bits must be leftmost and contiguous."
        DEFVAL { '00000000'h }
        ::= { docsCmFilterIpEntry 8 }

docsCmFilterIpDaddr OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      IpAddress
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The destination IP address, or portion thereof, that is to be
             matched for this filter "
        DEFVAL { '00000000'h }
        ::= { docsCmFilterIpEntry 9 }

docsCmFilterIpDmask OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      IpAddress
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A bit mask that is to be applied to the destination address
             prior to matching. This mask is not necessarily the same as a
             subnet mask, but 1's bits must be leftmost and contiguous "
        DEFVAL { '00000000'h }
        ::= { docsCmFilterIpEntry 10 }


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 24]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


docsCmFilterIpProtocol OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER {
            icmp(1),
            tcp(6),
            udp(17),
            any(256)
        }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The IP protocol value that is to be matched."
        DEFVAL { any }
        ::= { docsCmFilterIpEntry 11 }

docsCmFilterIpSourcePortLow OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..65535)
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "If docsCmFilterIpProtocol is udp or tcp, this is the inclusive
             lower bound of the transport-layer source port range that is to
             be matched."
        DEFVAL { 0 }
        ::= { docsCmFilterIpEntry 12 }

docsCmFilterIpSourcePortHigh OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..65535)
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "If docsCmFilterIpProtocol is udp or tcp, this is the inclusive
             upper bound of the transport-layer source port range that is to
             be matched."
        DEFVAL { 65535 }
        ::= { docsCmFilterIpEntry 13 }

docsCmFilterIpDestPortLow OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..65535)
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "If docsCmFilterIpProtocol is udp or tcp, this is the inclusive
             lower bound of the transport-layer destination port range that
             is to be matched."
        DEFVAL { 0 }
        ::= { docsCmFilterIpEntry 14 }

docsCmFilterIpDestPortHigh OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..65535)
        MAX-ACCESS  read-create
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 25]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


            "If docsCmFilterIpProtocol is udp or tcp, this is the inclusive
             upper bound of the transport-layer destination port range that
             is to be matched."
        DEFVAL { 65535 }
        ::= { docsCmFilterIpEntry 15 }

docsCmFilterIpMatches OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Counter32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Counts the number of times this filter was matched."
        ::= { docsCmFilterIpEntry 16 }

--
-- Placeholder for notifications/traps.
--
docsCmNotification OBJECT IDENTIFIER         ::= { docsCmMIB 2 }


--
-- Conformance definitions
--
docsCmConformance  OBJECT IDENTIFIER         ::= { docsCmMIB 3 }
docsCmGroups       OBJECT IDENTIFIER         ::= { docsCmConformance 1 }
docsCmCompliances  OBJECT IDENTIFIER         ::= { docsCmConformance 2 }

docsCmBasicCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for MCNS Cable Modems and Cable Modem
             Termination Systems."

MODULE  -- docsCmMIB

MANDATORY-GROUPS {
        docsCmBaseGroup,
        docsCmEventGroup,
        docsCmFilterGroup
        }

-- conditionally mandatory groups

GROUP docsCmNmAccessGroup
        DESCRIPTION
            "Must be implemented on Cable Modems, should be implemented
             on CMTSs"

GROUP docsCmServerGroup
        DESCRIPTION
            "This group is implemented only on Cable Modems, not on CMTSs."


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 26]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


GROUP docsCmSoftwareGroup
        DESCRIPTION
            "Must be implemented on Cable Modems, should be implemented
             on CMTSs."

OBJECT docsCmSTPControl
        MIN-ACCESS read-only
        DESCRIPTION
            "Devices need only support no-st-filter-bpdu(2)."
        ::= { docsCmCompliances 1 }

docsCmBaseGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
             docsCmRole,
             docsCmDateTime,
             docsCmResetNow,
             docsCmSerialNumber,
             docsCmSTPControl
        }
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects providing device status and control."
        ::= { docsCmGroups 1 }

docsCmNmAccessGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
             docsCmNmAccessIp,
             docsCmNmAccessIpMask,
             docsCmNmAccessCommunity,
             docsCmNmAccessControl,
             docsCmNmAccessInterfaces
        }
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects for controlling access to SNMP
             objects."
        ::= { docsCmGroups 2 }

docsCmSoftwareGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
            docsCmSwServer,
            docsCmSwFilename,
            docsCmSwAdminStatus,
            docsCmSwOperStatus
        }
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects for controlling software downloads."
        ::= { docsCmGroups 3 }

docsCmServerGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 27]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


            docsCmServerBootState,
            docsCmServerDhcp,
            docsCmServerTime,
            docsCmServerTftp,
            docsCmServerSecurity,
            docsCmServerConfigFile
        }
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects providing status about server
             provisioning."
        ::= { docsCmGroups 4 }

docsCmEventGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
            docsCmEvControl,
            docsCmEvSyslog,
            docsCmEvThrottleAdminStatus,
            docsCmEvThrottleOperStatus,
            docsCmEvThrottleThreshold,
            docsCmEvThrottleInterval,
            docsCmEvReporting,
            docsCmEvFirstTime,
            docsCmEvLastTime,
            docsCmEvCount,
            docsCmEvLevel,
            docsCmEvId,
            docsCmEvText
        }
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects used to control and monitor events."
        ::= { docsCmGroups 5 }

docsCmFilterGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
            docsCmFilterLLCDefault,
            docsCmFilterIpDefault,
            docsCmFilterLLCControl,
            docsCmFilterLLCIfIndex,
            docsCmFilterLLCProtocolType,
            docsCmFilterLLCProtocol,
            docsCmFilterLLCMatches,
            docsCmFilterIpControl,
            docsCmFilterIpIfIndex,
            docsCmFilterIpStatus,
            docsCmFilterIpDirection,
            docsCmFilterIpBroadcast,
            docsCmFilterIpSaddr,
            docsCmFilterIpSmask,
            docsCmFilterIpDaddr,
            docsCmFilterIpDmask,


Expires January 1998                                           [Page 28]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


            docsCmFilterIpProtocol,
            docsCmFilterIpSourcePortLow,
            docsCmFilterIpSourcePortHigh,
            docsCmFilterIpDestPortLow,
            docsCmFilterIpDestPortHigh,
            docsCmFilterIpMatches
        }
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects to specify filters at link layer
             and IP layer."
        ::= { docsCmGroups 6 }

END







































Expires January 1998                                           [Page 29]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


5.  Acknowledgments

This document was produced by the IPCDN Working Group.  It is based on a
document written by Pam Anderson from CableLabs, Wilson Sawyer from
BayNetworks, and Rich Woundy from Continental Cablevision.

Special thanks is also due to

        Azlina Palmer


6.  References

[1]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, "Structure of Management Information for Version 2
     of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902,
     January 1996.

[2]  McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II", STD 17,
     RFC 1213, Hughes LAN Systems, Performance Systems International,
     March 1991.

[3]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin, "A Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMP)", STD 15, RFC 1157, SNMP
     Research, Performance Systems International, MIT Lab for Computer
     Science, May 1990.

[4]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M. and
     S. Waldbusser, "Protocol Operations for Version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

[5]  McCloghrie, K. and F. Kastenholz, "Evolution of the Interfaces
     Group of MIB-II", RFC 1573, Hughes LAN Systems, FTP Software,
     January 1994.

[6]  "MCNS Data Over Cable Services Cable Modem Radio Frequency
     Interface Specification SP-RFID01-970326", MCNS, March 1997.

[7]  L. Steinberg, "Techniques for Managing Asynchronously Generated
     Alerts", RFC 1224, May 1991.

[8]  "MCNS Data Over Cable Services Operations Support System Interface
     Specification SP-OSSII01-970403", MCNS, March 1997.


7.  Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.




Expires January 1998                                           [Page 30]

INTERNET-DRAFT            MCNS Cable Modem MIB                 July 1997


8.  Author's Address

     Guenter Roeck
     cisco Systems
     170 West Tasman Drive
     San Jose, CA 95134
     U.S.A.

     Phone: +1 408 527 3143
     Email: groeck@cisco.com











































Expires January 1998                                           [Page 31]
