




                     Definitions of Managed Objects
                             for APPN TRAPS

                              May 22, 1998


                         Bob Clouston (editor)
                             Cisco Systems
                           clouston@cisco.com



                           Bob Moore (editor)
                            IBM Corporation
                           remoore@us.ibm.com



                 <draft-ietf-snanau-appntrapmib-01.txt>



Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet Draft.  Internet Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its Areas, and
its Working Groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet Drafts.

Internet Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months.
Internet Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
documents at any time.  It is not appropriate to use Internet Drafts as
reference material or to cite them other than as a "working draft" or
"work in progress."

Please check the I-D abstract listing contained in each Internet Draft
directory to learn the current status of this or any Internet Draft.
Distribution of this document is unlimited.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1998).  All Rights Reserved.

Abstract

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for



Expires November 22, 1998                                       [Page 1]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for receiving notifications from network
devices with APPN (Advanced Peer-to-Peer Network) and DLUR (Dependent LU
Requester) capabilities.  This memo identifies notifications for the
APPN and DLUR architecture.

This memo does not specify a standard for the Internet community.

1.  Introduction

This document is a product of the SNA NAU Services MIB Working Group.
It defines a MIB module for notifications for devices with Advanced
Peer-to-Peer Networking (APPN) and Dependent LU Requester (DLUR)
capabilities.

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 [13].


2.  The SNMP Network Management Framework

The SNMP Network Management Framework presently consists of six major
components.  They are:

o    the overall architecture, described in RFC 2271 [7].

o    the SMI, described in RFC 1902 [3], - the mechanisms used for
     describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.

o    the MIB-II, STD 17, RFC 1213 [2], - the core set of managed objects
     for the Internet suite of protocols.

o    the protocol, RFC 1157 [1] and/or RFC 1905 [6] and/or RFC 2272 [8]
     -- the protocol for accessing managed information.

o    the user-based security model defined in RFC 2274 [10].

o    the view-based access control model defined in RFC 2275 [11].

Textual conventions are defined in RFC 1903 [4], and conformance
statements are defined in RFC 1904 [5].  Common applications are defined
in RFC 2273 [9].

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.



Expires November 22, 1998                                       [Page 2]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


This memo specifies a MIB module that is compliant to the SMIv2.  A MIB
conforming to the SMIv1 can be produced through the appropriate
translation.


3.  Overview

This document identifies the set of objects for reporting the status of
devices with APPN and DLUR capabilities via notifications.  See the
SNANAU APPN MIB [14] and SNANAU DLUR MIB [15] for the objects for
monitoring the configuration and active characteristics of the devices
with APPN and DLUR capabilities.

The SNANAU APPN MIB allows a management station to collect the network
topology of an APPN network (the network nodes (NNs) in the network and
all of transmission groups (TGs) between the network nodes) from an APPN
device.  It also allows the management station to collect the local
topology (TGs to end stations, and locally defined ports and link
stations) from an APPN device.  While the SNANAU APPN MIB has an
efficient way to poll the APPN device for updates to the network
topology, using flow reduction sequence numbers (FRSNs) as a table
index; it does not have a mechanism to poll the local topology tables
(appnLocalTgTable, appnPortTable, and appnLsTable) for status changes.

This MIB provides a mechanism for an APPN device to send notifications
to inform the management station of status changes to rows of these
tables. Status changes include operational state changes, and for TGs
also include control-point to control-point (CP-CP) session state
changes.  A notification is defined for each type of status change for
each table.

The port and link operational state objects have intermediate states.
Notifications are only sent for transition to active or inactive state.

Notifications are only sent for row creation if the state is active or
operational.  This is done to avoid sending a notification as the row is
created with an inactive initial state, followed by another notification
as the resource is activated.

Notifications are only sent for row deletion if the last state was
active or operational.  In most cases, a resource must be deactivated
before it can be deleted, and the deactivation will cause a notification
to be sent.  There is no need for a second notification to be sent for
the row deletion, except for the case where the deletion occurred
without deactivation.  In this case, the state of the object in the
notification will indicate an inactve state, since a deleted resource



Expires November 22, 1998                                       [Page 3]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


can no longer be active.

The purpose of the appnLocalTgCpCpStateChangeTrap notification is to
identify the loss or recovery of CP-CP sessions on a TG while the TG
remains operational.  Thus this notification is only sent if there is a
change to an appnLocalTgCpCpSession object, but not a change to the
appnLocalTgOperational object.  This notification is never sent for the
creation or deletion of a row in the appnLocalTgTable.

Each notification always contains an object which is a count of the
number of times the status of a row in table has changed since the APPN
node was last reinitialized.  This enables a management station to
detect that it has missed a notification, if it does not get the
notifications in numerical sequence.  If the notifications are not in
sequence, the management station should retrieve the entire table to get
the correct status for all rows.

Similarly, the SNANAU DLUR MIB provides a mechanism for retrieving the
configuration and status of dependent LU server (DLUS) sessions on a
device with DLUR capabilities.  This MIB defines a notification for a
DLUR-DLUS session state change of a row in the dlurDlusTable, in the
manner described above.  A notification is only sent for a session state
transition to active or inactive.  As with the above notifications, it
is only sent on row creation if the initial state is active; and on row
deletion is the last state was active, in which case the notification
indicates that the state is now inactive.

The SNANAU APPN MIB also provides a mechanism for a management station
to collect traffic statistics on intermediate sessions, primarily for
accounting purposes.  However, when the session is terminated, all
statistics from the last poll until the session termination time are
lost, since the row for that session is deleted from the appnIsInTable.
This MIB defines a notification so that the session's final statistics
can be sent to a management station.

Highlights of the management functions supported by the APPN TRAP MIB
module include the following:


o    A notification for an APPN local TG operational state change.

o    A notification for an APPN local TG CP-CP session state change.

o    A notification for an APPN port operational state change.

o    A notification for an APPN link station operational state change.



Expires November 22, 1998                                       [Page 4]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


o    A notification for a DLUR-DLUS session state change.

o    A notification for reporting final APPN intermediate session
     statistics.


This MIB module does not support:


o    Objects to query the configuration or status of APPN nodes on
     demand.

o    Notifications for changes to local topology tables not related to
     status.

3.1.  APPN TRAP MIB Structure

The APPN TRAP MIB module contains a group of notifications, and a group
of supporting objects.

The group of notifications consists of the following notifications:

1) appnIsrAccountingDataTrap

This notification is generated by an APPN device when an intermediate
session is terminating, to report the final accounting statistics of the
session.

2) appnLocalTgOperStateChangeTrap

This notification identifies a change to the appnLocalTgOperational
object in a row of the SNANAU APPN MIB appnLocalTgTable.

3) appnLocalTgCpCpStateChangeTrap

This notification identifies a change to the appnLocalTgCpCpSession
object in a row of the SNANAU APPN MIB appnLocalTgTable.

4) appnPortOperStateChangeTrap

This notification identifies a change to the appnPortOperState object in
a row of the SNANAU APPN MIB appnPortTable.

5) appnLsOperStateChangeTrap

This notification identifies a change to the appnLsOperState object in a



Expires November 22, 1998                                       [Page 5]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


row of the SNANAU APPN MIB appnLsTable.

6) dlurDlusStateChangeTrap

This notification identifies a change to the dlurDlusSessnStatus object
in a row of the SNANAU DLUR MIB dlurDlusTable.


The group of supporting objects contains the appnTrapControl object,
which controls whether the APPN device generates each type of
notification.  Note that generation of the appnIsrAccountingDataTrap is
not controlled by this object; instead it is controlled by the
appnIsInGlobalCtrAdminStatus object in the SNANAU APPN MIB.

Although APPN notification generation could be controlled solely by
entries in the snmpNotificationMIB, RFC 2273 [9], the appnTrapControl
object exists in this MIB so that implementations are not required to
implement SNMPv3 to control generation of APPN notifications.  If
appnTrapControl enables APPN notifications, snmpNotificationMIB entries
could disable them.

Also contained in this group are objects for the TG, port, link, and
DLUR-DLUS session notifications to indicate the number of times each of
the tables has had a status change of a row since the APPN node was last
reinitialized.
























Expires November 22, 1998                                       [Page 6]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


4.  Definitions

APPN-TRAP-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS

        Counter32, OBJECT-TYPE, MODULE-IDENTITY,
        NOTIFICATION-TYPE
                FROM SNMPv2-SMI

        MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP, NOTIFICATION-GROUP
                FROM SNMPv2-CONF

        appnMIB, appnIsInP2SFmdPius, appnIsInS2PFmdPius,
        appnIsInP2SNonFmdPius, appnIsInS2PNonFmdPius,
        appnIsInP2SFmdBytes, appnIsInS2PFmdBytes,
        appnIsInP2SNonFmdBytes, appnIsInS2PNonFmdBytes,
        appnIsInSessUpTime, appnObjects,
        appnLocalTgOperational, appnLocalTgCpCpSession,
        appnPortOperState, appnLsOperState,
        appnCompliances, appnGroups
                 FROM APPN-MIB

        dlurDlusSessnStatus
                 FROM APPN-DLUR-MIB;

appnTrapMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
        LAST-UPDATED  "9805220000Z" -- May 22, 1998
        ORGANIZATION  "IETF SNA NAU MIB WG / AIW APPN MIBs SIG"
        CONTACT-INFO

                "
                        Bob Clouston
                        Cisco Systems
                        7025 Kit Creek Road
                        P.O. Box 14987
                        Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA
                        Tel:    1 919 472 2333
                        E-mail: clouston@cisco.com

                        Bob Moore
                        IBM Corporation
                        4205 S. Miami Boulevard
                        BRQA/501
                        P.O. Box 12195
                        Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA



Expires November 22, 1998                                       [Page 7]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


                        Tel:    1 919 254 4436
                        E-mail: remoore@us.ibm.com
                "
      DESCRIPTION
                "This MIB module defines notifications to be generated by
                network devices with APPN capabilities.  It presupposes
                support for the APPN MIB (RFC 2155).  It also presupposes
                support for the DLUR MIB (RFC 2232) for implementations
                that support the DLUR-related groups."

::= { appnMIB 0 }

-- *********************************************************************
-- Notifications
-- *********************************************************************

appnIsrAccountingDataTrap NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      OBJECTS  {
                appnIsInP2SFmdPius,
                appnIsInS2PFmdPius,
                appnIsInP2SNonFmdPius,
                appnIsInS2PNonFmdPius,
                appnIsInP2SFmdBytes,
                appnIsInS2PFmdBytes,
                appnIsInP2SNonFmdBytes,
                appnIsInS2PNonFmdBytes,
                appnIsInSessUpTime
               }
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "When it has been enabled, this notification is generated by an
          APPN node whenever an ISR session passing through the node is
          taken down, regardless of whether the session went down
          normally or abnormally.  Its purpose is to allow a management
          application (primarily an accounting application) that is
          monitoring the ISR counts to receive the final values of these
          counts, so that the application can properly account for the
          amounts the counts were incremented since the last time the
          application polled them.  The appnIsInSessUpTime object
          provides the total amount of time that the session was active.

          This notification is not a substitute for polling the ISR
          counts.  In particular, the count values reported in this
          notification cannot be assumed to be the complete totals for
          the life of the session, since they may have wrapped while the
          session was up.



Expires November 22, 1998                                       [Page 8]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


          The session to which the objects in this notification apply is
          identified by the fully qualified CP name and PCID that make up
          the table index.  An instance of this notification will contain
          exactly one instance of each of its objects, and these objects
          will all belong to the same conceptual row of the
          appnIsInTable.

          Generation of this notification is controlled by the same
          object in the APPN MIB, appnIsInGlobeCtrAdminStatus, that
          controls whether the count objects themselves are being
          incremented."

      ::= { appnTrapMIB 1 }

appnLocalTgOperStateChangeTrap NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      OBJECTS  {
                appnLocalTgTableChanges,
                appnLocalTgOperational
               }
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "When it has been enabled, this notification makes it possible
          for an APPN topology application to get asynchronous
          notifications of local TG operational state changes,
          and thus to reduce the frequency with which it polls
          for these changes.

          This notification is sent whenever there is a change to
          the appnLocalTgOperational object in a row of the
          appnLocalTgTable.  This notification is only sent for row
          creation if the row is created with a value of 'true' for
          appnLocalTgOperational.  This notification is only sent for
          row deletion if the last value of appnLocalTgOperational was
          'true'.  In this case, the value of appnLocalTgOperational
          in the notification shall be 'false', since the deletion of
          a row indicates that the TG is no longer operational.

          The notification is more than a simple 'poll me now' indication.
          It carries both a count of local TG topology changes, and the
          current operational state itself.  The count of changes allows an
          application to detect lost notifications, either when polling
          or upon receiving a subsequent notification, at which point it
          knows it must retrieve the entire appnLocalTgTable again.
          This is the same count as used in the appnLocalCpCpStateChangeTrap.
          A lost notification could indicate a local TG CP-CP session state
          change or an operational state change.



Expires November 22, 1998                                       [Page 9]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


          Generation of this notification is controlled by the
          appnTrapControl object."

      ::= { appnTrapMIB 2 }


appnLocalTgCpCpChangeTrap NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      OBJECTS  {
                appnLocalTgTableChanges,
                appnLocalTgCpCpSession
               }
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "When it has been enabled, this notification makes it possible
          for an APPN topology application to get asynchronous
          notifications of local TG control-point to control-point (CP-CP)
          session state changes, and thus to reduce the
          frequency with which it polls for these changes.

          This notification is sent whenever there is a change to
          the appnLocalTgCpCpSession object but NOT the
          appnLocalTgOperational object in a row of the appnLocalTgTable.
          This notification is never sent for appnLocalTgTable row
          creation or deletion.

          The notification is more than a simple 'poll me now' indication.
          It carries both a count of local TG topology changes, and the
          current CP-CP session state itself.  The count of changes allows
          an application to detect lost notifications, either when polling
          or upon receiving a subsequent notification, at which point it
          knows it must retrieve the entire appnLocalTgTable again.  This
          is the same count as used in the appnLocalTgOperStateChangeTrap.
          A lost notification could indicate a local TG CP-CP session
          state change or an operational state change.

          Generation of this notification is controlled by the
          appnTrapControl object."

      ::= { appnTrapMIB 3 }


appnPortOperStateChangeTrap NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      OBJECTS  {
                appnPortTableChanges,
                appnPortOperState
               }



Expires November 22, 1998                                      [Page 10]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "When it has been enabled, this notification makes it possible
          for an APPN topology application to get asynchronous
          notifications of port operational state changes, and thus to
          reduce the frequency with which it polls for these changes.
          This notification is only sent when a appnPortOperState has
          transitioned to a value of 'active' or 'inactive'.

          This notification is sent whenever there is a appnPortOperState
          object transition to 'inactive' or 'active' state in the
          appnPortTable.  This notification is only sent for row creation
          if the row is created with a value of 'active' for
          appnPortOperState.  This notification is only sent for
          row deletion if the last value of appnPortOperState was
          'active'.  In this case, the value of appnPortOperState
          in the notification shall be 'inactive', since the deletion of
          a row indicates that the port is no longer active.

          The notification is more than a simple 'poll me now' indication.
          It carries both a count of port table changes, and the
          operational state itself.  The count of changes allows an
          application to detect lost notifications, either when polling
          or upon receiving a subsequent notification, at which point
          it knows it must retrieve the entire appnPortTable again.

          Generation of this notification is controlled by the
          appnTrapControl object."

      ::= { appnTrapMIB 4 }

appnLsOperStateChangeTrap NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      OBJECTS  {
                appnLsTableChanges,
                appnLsOperState
               }
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "When it has been enabled, this notification makes it possible
          for an APPN topology application to get asynchronous
          notifications of link station operational state changes, and
          thus to reduce the frequency with which it polls for these
          changes.  This notification is only sent when a appnLsOperState
          has transitioned to a value of 'active' or 'inactive'.

          This notification is sent whenever there is a appnLsOperState



Expires November 22, 1998                                      [Page 11]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


          object transition to 'inactive' or 'active' state in the
          appnLsTable.  This notification is only sent for row creation
          if the row is created with a value of 'active' for
          appnLsOperState.  This notification is only sent for
          row deletion if the last value of appnLsOperState was
          'active'.  In this case, the value of appnLsOperState
          in the notification shall be 'inactive', since the deletion of
          a row indicates that the link station is no longer active.

          The notification is more than a simple 'poll me now' indication.
          It carries both a count of link station table changes, and the
          operational state itself.  The count of changes allows an
          application to detect lost notifications, either when polling
          or upon receiving a subsequent notification, at which point it
          knows it must retrieve the entire appnLsTable again.

          Generation of this notification is controlled by the
          appnTrapControl object."

      ::= { appnTrapMIB 5 }

dlurDlusStateChangeTrap NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      OBJECTS  {
                dlurDlusTableChanges,
                dlurDlusSessnStatus
               }
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "When it has been enabled, this notification makes it possible
          for an APPN topology application to get asynchronous
          notifications of DLUR-DLUS session changes, and thus to reduce
          the frequency with which it polls for these changes.

          This notification is sent whenever there is a dlurDlusSessnStatus
          object transition to 'inactive' or 'active' state in the
          dlurDlusTable.  This notification is only sent for row creation
          if the row is created with a value of 'active' for
          dlurDlusSessnStatus.  This notification is only sent for
          row deletion if the last value of dlurDlusSessnStatus was
          'active'.  In this case, the value of dlurDlusSessnStatus
          in the notification shall be 'inactive', since the deletion of
          a row indicates that the session is no longer active.

          The notification is more than a simple 'poll me now' indication.
          It carries both a count of DLUR-DLUS table changes, and the
          session status itself.  The count of changes allows an



Expires November 22, 1998                                      [Page 12]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


          application to detect lost notifications, either when polling
          or upon receiving a subsequent notification, at which point it
          knows it must retrieve the entire dlurDlusTable again.

          Generation of this notification is controlled by the
          appnTrapControl object."

      ::= { appnTrapMIB 6 }

-- *********************************************************************
-- Supporting Objects
-- *********************************************************************

appnTrapObjects              OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnObjects 7 }

appnTrapControl OBJECT-TYPE


      SYNTAX BITS {
                   appnLocalTgOperStateChangeTrap(0),
                   appnLocalTgCpCpChangeTrap(1),
                   appnPortOperStateChangeTrap(2),
                   appnLsOperStateChangeTrap(3),
                   dlurDlusStateChangeTrap(4)
                   -- add other notification types here
                  }
      MAX-ACCESS read-write
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "An object to turn APPN notification generation on and off.
          Setting a notification type's bit to 1 enables generation of
          notifications of that type, subject to further filtering
          resulting from entries in the snmpNotificationMIB.  Setting
          this bit to 0 disables generation of notifications of that
          type.

          Note that generation of the appnIsrAccountingDataTrap is
          controlled by the appnIsInGlobeCtrAdminStatus object in
          the APPN MIB:  if counts of intermediate session traffic
          are being kept at all, then the notification is also enabled."

      ::= { appnTrapObjects 1 }

appnLocalTgTableChanges OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only



Expires November 22, 1998                                      [Page 13]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "A count of the number of times a row in the appnLocalTgTable
          has changed status since the APPN node was last reinitialized.
          This counter is incremented whenever a condition is detected
          that would cause a appnLocalTgOperStateChangeTrap or
          appnLocalTgCpCpChangeTrap notification to be sent, whether
          or not those notifications are enabled."

      ::= { appnTrapObjects 2 }

appnPortTableChanges OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "A count of the number of times a row in the appnPortTable
          has changed status since the APPN node was last reinitialized.
          This counter is incremented whenever a condition is detected
          that would cause a appnPortOperStateChangeTrap notification
          to be sent, whether or not this notification is enabled."

      ::= { appnTrapObjects 3 }

appnLsTableChanges OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "A count of the number of times a row in the appnLsTable
          has changed status since the APPN node was last reinitialized.
          This counter is incremented whenever a condition is detected
          that would cause a appnLsOperStateChangeTrap notification
          to be sent, whether or not this notification is enabled."

      ::= { appnTrapObjects 4 }

dlurDlusTableChanges OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "A count of the number of times a row in the dlurDlusTable
          has changed status since the APPN node was last reinitialized.
          This counter is incremented whenever a condition is detected
          that would cause a dlurDlusStateChangeTrap notification



Expires November 22, 1998                                      [Page 14]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


          to be sent, whether or not this notification is enabled."

      ::= { appnTrapObjects 5 }

-- *********************************************************************
-- Conformance information
-- *********************************************************************

-- Tie into the conformance structure in the APPN MIB:
-- appnConformance       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {appnMIB 3 }
--
-- appnCompliances       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {appnConformance 1 }
-- appnGroups            OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {appnConformance 2 }

-- Compliance statement
appnTrapMibCompliance  MODULE-COMPLIANCE
       STATUS  current
       DESCRIPTION
           "The compliance statement for the SNMP entities that
           implement the APPN-TRAP-MIB."

       MODULE  -- this module

--     Conditionally mandatory groups
           GROUP appnTrapMibIsrNotifGroup
           DESCRIPTION
               "This group is mandatory for APPN nodes supporting
               reporting of final ISR counter values via notifications."

           GROUP appnTrapMibTopoConfGroup
           DESCRIPTION
               "This group is mandatory for APPN nodes supporting
               polling reduction for local topology."

           GROUP appnTrapMibTopoNotifGroup
           DESCRIPTION
               "This group is mandatory for APPN nodes supporting
               polling reduction for local topology."

           GROUP appnTrapMibDlurConfGroup
           DESCRIPTION
               "This group is mandatory for APPN nodes supporting
               polling reduction for the dlurDlusTable."

           GROUP appnTrapMibDlurNotifGroup
           DESCRIPTION



Expires November 22, 1998                                      [Page 15]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


               "This group is mandatory for APPN nodes supporting
               polling reduction for the dlurDlusTable."

           OBJECT appnTrapControl
               MIN-ACCESS  read-only
               DESCRIPTION
                   "An agent is not required to support a set to
                   this object."

       ::= {appnCompliances 2 }


-- Units of conformance
appnTrapMibIsrNotifGroup    NOTIFICATION-GROUP
        NOTIFICATIONS {
                       appnIsrAccountingDataTrap
                      }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A notification for reporting the final values of the
            APPN MIB's ISR counters."

        ::= { appnGroups 21 }

appnTrapMibTopoConfGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS  {
                  appnTrapControl,
                  appnLocalTgTableChanges,
                  appnPortTableChanges,
                  appnLsTableChanges
                 }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects for reducing the polling
            associated with the local topology tables in the
            APPN MIB.  Nodes that implement this group SHALL
            also implement the appnTrapMibTopoNotifGroup."

        ::= { appnGroups 22 }

appnTrapMibTopoNotifGroup    NOTIFICATION-GROUP
        NOTIFICATIONS {
                       appnLocalTgOperStateChangeTrap,
                       appnLocalTgCpCpChangeTrap,
                       appnPortOperStateChangeTrap,
                       appnLsOperStateChangeTrap



Expires November 22, 1998                                      [Page 16]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


                      }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of notifications for reducing the polling
            associated with the local topology tables in the
            APPN MIB.  Nodes that implement this group SHALL
            also implement the appnTrapMibTopoConfGroup."

        ::= { appnGroups 23 }

appnTrapMibDlurConfGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS  {
                  appnTrapControl,
                  dlurDlusTableChanges
                 }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects for reducing the polling
            associated with the dlurDlusTable in the DLUR
            MIB.  Nodes that implement this group SHALL also
            implement the appnTrapMibDlurNotifGroup."

        ::= { appnGroups 24 }

appnTrapMibDlurNotifGroup    NOTIFICATION-GROUP
        NOTIFICATIONS {
                       dlurDlusStateChangeTrap
                      }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A notification for reducing the polling associated
            with the dlurDlusTable in the DLUR MIB.  Nodes that
            implement this group SHALL also implement the
            appnTrapMibDlurConfGroup."

        ::= { appnGroups 25 }

END











Expires November 22, 1998                                      [Page 17]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


5.  Security Considerations

Certain management information defined in this MIB may be considered
sensitive in some network environments.  Therefore, authentication of
received SNMP requests and controlled access to management information
SHOULD be employed in such environments.  An authentication protocol is
defined in [10].  A protocol for access control is defined in [11].

None of the read-only objects in the APPN TRAP MIB reports a password,
user data, or anything else that is particularly sensitive.  Some
enterprises view their network configuration itself, as well as
information about network usage and performance, as corporate assets;
such enterprises may wish to restrict SNMP access to most of the objects
in the MIB.

There is one read-write object in the APPN TRAP MIB, appnTrapControl.
This object controls the generation of the notifications defined in the
APPN TRAP MIB.

6.  Intellectual Property

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed to pertain
to the implementation or use of the technology described in this
document or the extent to which any license under such rights might or
might not be available; neither does it represent that it has made any
effort to identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's
procedures with respect to rights in standards-track and standards-
related documentation can be found in BCP-11 [12].  Copies of claims of
rights made available for publication and any assurances of licenses to
be made available, or the result of an attempt made to obtain a general
license or permission for the use of such proprietary rights by
implementers or users of this specification can be obtained from the
IETF Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights
which may cover technology that may be required to practice this
standard.  Please address the information to the IETF Executive
Director.


7.  Acknowledgments

This MIB module is the product of the IETF SNA NAU MIB WG and the AIW
APPN/HPR MIBs SIG.



Expires November 22, 1998                                      [Page 18]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


8.  References


[1]  Case, J., M. Fedor, M. Schoffstall, J. Davin, "Simple Network
     Management Protocol", RFC 1157, SNMP Research, Performance Systems
     International, MIT Laboratory for Computer Science, May 1990.

[2]  McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II", STD 17,
     RFC 1213, Hughes LAN Systems, Performance Systems International,
     March 1991.

[3]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser S., "Structure
     of Management Information for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902, January 1996.

[4]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Textual
     Conventions for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1903, January 1996.

[5]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S.,
     "Conformance Statements for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1904, January 1996.

[6]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Protocol
     Operations for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

[7]  Harrington D., Presuhn, R., Wijnen, B., "An Architecture for
     Describing SNMP Management Frameworks", RFC 2271, Cabletron
     Systems, BMC Software, Inc., IBM T.J. Watson Research, January
     1998.

[8]  Harrington D., Presuhn, R., Wijnen, B., "Message Processing and
     Dispatching for the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)", RFC
     2272, Cabletron Systems, BMC Software, Inc., IBM T.J. Watson
     Research, January 1998.

[9]  Levi D., Meyer P., Stewart, B., "SNMPv3 Applications", RFC 2273,
     SNMP Research, Inc., Secure Computing Corporation, Cisco Systems,
     January 1998.

[10] Blumenthal, U., Wijnen, B., "User-based Security Model (USM) for
     version 3 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv3)", RFC
     2274, IBM T. J. Watson Research, January 1998




Expires November 22, 1998                                      [Page 19]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


[11] Wijnen, B., Presuhn, R., McCloghrie, K., "View-based Access Control
     Model (VACM) for the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)",
     RFC 2275, IBM T.J. Watson Research, BMC Software, Inc., Cisco
     Systems, Inc., January 1998.

[12] Hovey, R., and S. Bradner, "The Organizations Involved in the IETF
     Standards Process", BCP 11, RFC 2028, October 1996.

[13] Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
     Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

[14] Clouston, B., and B. Moore, "Definition of Managed Objects for APPN
     using SMIv2", RFC 2155, June 1997.

[15] Clouston, B., and B. Moore, "Definitions of Managed Objects for
     DLUR", RFC 2232, November 1997.


9.  Authors' Addresses

Bob Clouston
Cisco Systems
7025 Kit Creek Road
P.O. Box 14987
Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA

Tel:    1 919 472 2333
E-mail: clouston@cisco.com


Robert Moore
Dept. BRQA/Bldg. 501/G114
IBM Corporation
P.O.Box 12195
3039 Cornwallis
Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA

Phone: +1-919-254-4436
E-mail: remoore@us.ibm.com


10.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1998).  All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to



Expires November 22, 1998                                      [Page 20]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS
IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK
FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT
INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.




























Expires November 22, 1998                                      [Page 21]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


Table of Contents


   1.     Introduction  ...........................................  2
   2.     The SNMP Network Management Framework  ..................  2
   3.     Overview  ...............................................  3
   3.1      APPN TRAP MIB structure  ..............................  5
   4.     Definitions  ............................................  7
   5.     Security Considerations  ................................  18
   5.     Intellectual Property  ..................................  18
   7.     Acknowledgments  ........................................  18
   8.     References  .............................................  19
   9.     Author's Addresses  .....................................  20
   10.    Full Copyright Statement  ...............................  20



































Expires November 22, 1998                                      [Page 22]

