 



INTERNET-DRAFT                                            Mohammed Umair
Intended Status: Proposed Standard                       Kingston Smiler
                                                             IP Infusion
                                                     Donald Eastlake 3rd
                                                               Lucy Yong
                                                     Huawei Technologies
Expires: January 7, 2016                                    July 6, 2015


                 TRILL Transparent Transport over MPLS 
                draft-muks-trill-transport-over-mpls-00


Abstract

   This document specifies how to interconnect Transparent
   Interconnection of Lots of links (TRILL) sites belonging to a tenant
   that are separated geographically over an MPLS domain. This draft
   addresses two problems 1) Providing connection between more than two
   TRILL sites that are separated by an MPLS provider network using
   [RFC7173] 2) Providing connection between TRILL sites belonging to a
   tenant over a MPLS provider network



Status of this Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted to IETF in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as
   Internet-Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/1id-abstracts.html

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html


Copyright and License Notice
 


M.Umair & K.Smiler      Expires January 7, 2016                 [Page 1]

INTERNET DRAFT   TRILL Transparent Transport over MPLS      July 6, 2015


   Copyright (c) 2015 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors. All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document. Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.



Table of Contents

   1  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
     1.1  Terminology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
   2.  TRILL Over MPLS Model  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
   3.  VPLS Model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
     3.1.  Entities in the VPLS Model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
     3.3. TRILL Adjacency for VPLS model  . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
     3.4. MPLS encapsulation for VPLS model . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
     3.5  Loop Free provider PSN/MPLS.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
     3.6.  Frame processing.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
   4.  VPTS Model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
     4.1.  Entities in the VPTS Model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
       4.1.1 TRILL Intermediate Routers [TIR] . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
       4.1.2 Virtual TRILL Switch Domain (VTSD) . . . . . . . . . . . 10
     4.2. TRILL Adjacency for VPLS model  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
     4.3. MPLS encapsulation for VPLS model . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
     4.4  Loop Free provider PSN/MPLS.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
     4.5.  Frame processing.  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
       4.5.1 Multi-Destination Frame processing . . . . . . . . . . . 10
       4.5.2 Unicast Frame processing . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
   5.  Extensions to TRILL Over Pseudowires [RFC7173] . . . . . . . . 11
   6.  VPTS Model Versus VPLS Model . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
   7.  Security Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
   8.  IANA Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
   9.  References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
     9.1  Normative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
     9.2  Informative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
   Authors' Addresses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14




 


M.Umair & K.Smiler      Expires January 7, 2016                 [Page 2]

INTERNET DRAFT   TRILL Transparent Transport over MPLS      July 6, 2015


1  Introduction

   The IETF Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links (TRILL)
   protocol [RFC6325] [RFC7177] [RFC7180bis] provides transparent
   forwarding in multi-hop networks with arbitrary topology and link
   technologies using a header with a hop count and link-state routing.
   TRILL provides optimal pair-wise forwarding without configuration,
   safe forwarding even during periods of temporary loops, and support
   for multipathing of both unicast and multicast traffic. Intermediate
   Systems (ISs) implementing TRILL are called Routing Bridges(RBridges)
   or TRILL Switches

   This draft, in conjunction with [RFC7173], address two problems

   1) Providing connection between more than two TRILL sites of a single
   TRILL network that are separated by an MPLS provider network using
   [RFC7173]. (Herein also called as problem statement 1.)

   2) Providing connection between TRILL sites belongs to a
   tenant/tenants over a MPLS provider network. (Herein also called as
   problem statement 2.)

   A tenant is the administrative entity on whose behalf one or more
   customers  and their associated services are managed. Here Customer
   refers to TRILL campus not Data Label.

   A key multi-tenancy requirement is traffic isolation so that one
   tenant's traffic is not visible to any other tenant. This draft also
   addresses the problem of multi-tenancy by isolating one tenant's
   traffic from the other. 

1.1  Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 [RFC2119].


    Acronyms used in this document include the following:

      	AC	   - Attachment Circuit [RFC4664]
      	
      	Data Label  - VLAN or FGL

      	ECMP        - Equal Cost Multi Path

      	FGL 	   - Fine-Grained Labeling [RFC7172]

 


M.Umair & K.Smiler      Expires January 7, 2016                 [Page 3]

INTERNET DRAFT   TRILL Transparent Transport over MPLS      July 6, 2015


      	IS-IS       - Intermediate System to Intermediate System [IS-IS]
      	
      	LDP         - Label Distribution Protocol

      	LAN         - Local Area Network

      	MPLS        - Multi-Protocol Label Switching

      	PE          - Provider Edge Device

      	PPP         - Point-to-Point Protocol [RFC1661]

      	PSN         - Packet Switched Network

      	PW          - Pseudowire [RFC4664]
      	
      	TIR         - TRILL Intermediate Router
      		     [Devices where Pseudowire starts and Terminates]

      	TRILL       - Transparent Interconnection of Lots of Links 
      		    OR Tunneled Routing in the Link Layer
      	
      	TRILL Site  - A part of a TRILL campus that contains at 
      		    least one RBridge.

      	VLAN        - Virtual Local Area Network	
      	
      	VPLS        - Virtual Private LAN Service

      	VPTS        - Virtual Private TRILL Service

      	VSI	   - Virtual Service Instance [RFC4664] 
      	
      	VTSD        - Virtual TRILL Switch Domain
      		    A Virtual RBridge which segregates one tenant's 
      		    TRILL database as well as traffic from the other.

      	WAN	   - Wide Area Network



2.  TRILL Over MPLS Model

   TRILL Over MPLS can be achieved by two different ways. 


      a) VPLS Model for TRILL
      b) VPTS Model/TIR Model
 


M.Umair & K.Smiler      Expires January 7, 2016                 [Page 4]

INTERNET DRAFT   TRILL Transparent Transport over MPLS      July 6, 2015


   Both these models can be used to solve the problem statement 1 and 2.
   Herein the VPLS Model for TRILL is also called Model 1 and the VPTS
   Model/TIR Model is also called Model 2. 

3.  VPLS Model

   Figure 1 shows the topological model of TRILL over MPLS using VPLS
   model. The PE routers in the below topology model should support all
   the functional Components mentioned in [RFC4664].



       +-----+                                               +-----+
       | RBa +---+      ...........................      +---| RBb |
       +-----+   |      .                         .      |   +-----+
       Site 1    |    +----+                   +----+    |    Site 2
                 +----|PE1 |                   |PE2 |----+    
                      +----+    MPLS Cloud     +----+
                        .                         .
                        .         +----+          .
                        ..........|PE3 |...........     
                                  +----+      ^
                                     |        |
                                     |        +-- Emulated LAN
                                  +-----+         
                                  | RBc |
                                  +-----+
                                  Site 3

             Figure 1: Topological Model of TRILL over MPLS
                         connecting three TRILL Sites 


 Figure 2 below shows the topological model of TRILL over MPLS to
 connect multiple TRILL sites belonging to a tenant (tenant here is a
 campus, not a Data label). VSI1 and VSI2 are two Virtual Service
 Instances which segregates Tenant1's traffic from Tenant2's. VSI1 will
 maintain its own database for Tenant1, similarly VSI2 will maintain its
 own database for Tenant2.  









 


M.Umair & K.Smiler      Expires January 7, 2016                 [Page 5]

INTERNET DRAFT   TRILL Transparent Transport over MPLS      July 6, 2015


       +-----+         ............................          +-----+
       |RBat1+---+     . ++++++++++++++++++++++++ .      +---|RBbt1|
       +-----+   |     . +                      + .      |   +-----+
 Tenant1 Site 1  |    +----+                   +----+    | Tenant1 Site2
                 +----|VSI1|                   |VSI1|----+
                 +----|VSI2|    MPLS  Cloud    |VSI2|----+
                 |    +----+                   +----+    |
       +-----+   |     . +                       + .     |   +-----+
       |RBat2+---+     . +++++++++ +----+ ++++++++ .     +---|RBbt2|
       +-----+         ............|VSI1|...........         +-----+
 Tenant2 Site 2               +----|VSI2|----+     ^      Tenant2 Site2
                              |    +----+    |     |
                              |              |     |   
                          +-----+         +-----+  +-----Emulated     
                          |RBct2|         |RBct1|          LAN
                          +-----+         +-----+
                       Tenant2 Site 3     Tenant1 Site 3

						
      .... VSI1 Path
      ++++ VSI2 Path

         Figure 2: Topological Model for VPLS Model 
                 connecting 2 Tenants with 3 sites each  


In this model TRILL sites are connected using VPLS-capable PE devices
that provide a logical interconnect, such that TRILL RBridges belonging
to a specific tenant connected via an single bridged Ethernet. These
devices are same as PE devices specified in [RFC4026]. The Attachment
Circuit ports of PE Routers are layer 2 switch ports that are connected
to the RBridges in a TRILL site. Here each VPLS instance looks like an
emulated LAN. This model is similar to connecting different RBridges
(TRILL sites) by a layer 2 bridge domain (multi access links) as
specified in [RFC6325]. This model doesn't requires any changes in PE
routers to carry TRILL frames, as TRILL frame will be transferred
transparently.


3.1.  Entities in the VPLS Model

The PE (VPLS-PE) and CE devices are defined in [RFC4026].

The Generic L2VPN Transport Functional Components like Attachment
Circuits, Pseudowires, VSI etc. are defined in [RFC4664].

The RB (RBridge) and TRILL Sites are defined in [RFC6325]

 


M.Umair & K.Smiler      Expires January 7, 2016                 [Page 6]

INTERNET DRAFT   TRILL Transparent Transport over MPLS      July 6, 2015


3.3. TRILL Adjacency for VPLS model

As specified in section 3 of this document, the MPLS cloud looks like an
emulated LAN (also called multi-access link or broadcast link). This
results in RBridge of different sites looking like that they are
connected to a multi-access link. With such interconnection, the TRILL
adjacency over the link is automatically discovered and established
through TRILL IS-IS control messages [RFC7177] which is transparently
forwarded by the VPLS domain, after doing MPLS encapsulation specified
in the section 3.4.


3.4. MPLS encapsulation for VPLS model

MPLS encapsulation over Ethernet pseudowire is specified in [RFC7173]
Appendix A, and requires no changes in the frame format.


3.5  Loop Free provider PSN/MPLS.

No explicit handling is required to avoid loop free topology as, Split
Horizon technique mentioned in [RFC4664] in the provider PSN network
takes care of loop-free topology in the PSN. 


3.6.  Frame processing.

The PE device transparently process the TRILL control and data frames
and procedure to forward the frames are defined in [RFC4664] 


4.  VPTS Model

The [Virtual Private TRILL Service] VPTS is an L2 TRILL service that
emulates TRILL service across a Wide Area Network (WAN). VPTS is similar
to what VPLS does for bridge domain. VPLS provides virtual private LAN
service for different customers. VPTS provide Virtual Private TRILL
service (VPTS) for different TRILL tenants.

Figure 3 shows the topological model of TRILL over MPLS using VPTS. In
this model the PE routers are replaced with TIR [TRILL Intermediate
Router] and VSI is replaced with VTSD [Virtual TRILL Switch Domain]. The
TIR [TRILL Intermediate Router] devices are interconnected via PWs
appear as a single emulated TRILL Site with each VTSD inside a TIR
equivalent to a RBridge. The TIR devices must be capable of supporting
both MPLS and TRILL.  


 


M.Umair & K.Smiler      Expires January 7, 2016                 [Page 7]

INTERNET DRAFT   TRILL Transparent Transport over MPLS      July 6, 2015


       +-----+                                               +-----+
       | RBa +---+      ...........................      +---| RBb |
       +-----+   |      .                         .      |   +-----+
       Site 1    |    +----+                   +----+    |    Site 2
                 +----|TIR1|                   |TIR2|----+    
                      +----+    MPLS Cloud     +----+
                        .                         .
                        .         +----+          .
                        ..........|TIR3|...........     
                                  +----+      ^
                                     |        |
                                     |        +-- Emulated TRILL
                                  +-----+         
                                  | RBc |
                                  +-----+
                                  Site 3

             Figure 3: Topological Model of VPTS/TIR
                        connecting three TRILL Sites 

 In the above figure (Figure 3) Site1, Site2 and Site3 (running TRILL
 protocol) are connected to TIR Devices. These TIR devices along with
 the MPLS cloud looks like an emulated TRILL Site with all the TRILL
 Sites connecting to MPLS cloud forming a single TRILL campus. Only the
 PE devices in the MPLS network should be replaced with TIRs that make
 the intermediate P routers agnostic to the TRILL protocol. 

 Figure 4 below shows the topological model of TRILL over MPLS to
 connect multiple TRILL sites belonging to a tenant (tenant here is a
 campus, not a Data label) using VPTS model. VTSD1 and VTSD2 are two
 Virtual TRILL Switch Domains (Virtual RBridges) that segregates
 Tenant1's traffic from Tenant2's. VTSD1 will maintain its own TRILL
 database for Tenant1, similarly VTSD2 will maintain its own TRILL
 database for Tenant2.  














 


M.Umair & K.Smiler      Expires January 7, 2016                 [Page 8]

INTERNET DRAFT   TRILL Transparent Transport over MPLS      July 6, 2015


    +-----+          ............................         +-----+
    |RBat1+---+      . ######################## .     +---|RBbt1|
    +-----+   |      . #                      # .     |   +-----+
Tenant1 Site 1|    +-----+                 +-----+    |  Tenant1 Site 2
              +----|VTSD1|                 |VTSD1|----+
              +----|VTSD2|   MPLS  Cloud   |VTSD2|----+
              |    +-----+                 +-----+    |
    +-----+   |      . #                       # .    |   +-----+
    |RBat2+---+      . #########+-----+######### .    +---|RBbt2|
    +-----+          ...........|VTSD1|...........        +-----+
Tenant2 Site2               +---|VTSD2|----+     ^       Tenant2 Site 2
                            |   +-----+    |     |
                            |              |     |   
                        +-----+         +-----+  +-----Emulated     
                        |RBct2|         |RBct1|          TRILL
                        +-----+         +-----+
                    Tenant2 Site 3     Tenant1 Site 3

						
        .... VTSD1 Connectivity
        #### VTSD2 Connectivity

                  Figure 4: Topological Model of VPTS/TIR
                 connecting 2 tenants with three TRILL Sites 



4.1.  Entities in the VPTS Model

The CE devices are defined in [RFC4026].

The Generic L2VPN Transport Functional Components like Attachment
Circuits, Pseudowires etc. are defined in [RFC4664].

The RB (RBridge) and TRILL Campus are defined in [RFC6325]

This model introduces two new entities called TIR and VTSD.


4.1.1 TRILL Intermediate Routers [TIR]

The TIRs [TRILL Intermediate Routers] must be capable of running both
VPLS and TRILL protocols. TIR devices are superset of VPLS-PE devices
which is defined in [RFC4026]. The VSI instance that provides
transparent bridging functionality in the PE device is replaced with
VTSD in TIR.


 


M.Umair & K.Smiler      Expires January 7, 2016                 [Page 9]

INTERNET DRAFT   TRILL Transparent Transport over MPLS      July 6, 2015


4.1.2 Virtual TRILL Switch Domain (VTSD)

The VTSD [Virtual Trill Switch Domain] is similar to VSI (layer 2
bridge) in VPLS model, but this acts as TRILL RBridge. The VTSD is a
superset of VSI and must support all the functionality provided by the
VSI as defined in [RFC4026]. Along with VSI functionality, the VTSD must
be capable of supporting TRILL protocols and form TRILL adjacency.  The
VTSD must be capable of performing all the operations that a standard
TRILL Switch can do.

One VTSD instance per tenant must be maintained, when multiple tenants
are connected to the TIR. The VTSD must maintain all the information
maintained by the RBridge on a per tenant basis. The VTSD must also take
care of segregating one tenant traffic from other. 


4.2. TRILL Adjacency for VPLS model

The VTSD must be capable of forming TRILL adjacency with other VTSDs
present in its peer VPTS neighbor, and also the RBridges present in the
TRILL sites. The procedure to form TRILL Adjacency is specified in
[RFC7173] and [RFC7177].  


4.3. MPLS encapsulation for VPLS model

MPLS encapsulation over pseudowire is specified in [RFC7173], and
requires no changes in the frame format.


4.4  Loop Free provider PSN/MPLS.

This model isn't required to employ Split Horizon mechanism in the
provider PSN network, as TRILL takes care of Loop free topology using
Distribution Trees. Any multi-destination frame will traverse a
distribution tree path. All distribution trees are calculated based on
TRILL base protocol standard [RFC6325] as updated by [RFC7180bis].


4.5.  Frame processing.

This section specifies multi-destination and unicast frame processing in
VPTS/TIR model.


4.5.1 Multi-Destination Frame processing

Any unknown unicast, multicast or broadcast frames inside VTSD should be
 


M.Umair & K.Smiler      Expires January 7, 2016                [Page 10]

INTERNET DRAFT   TRILL Transparent Transport over MPLS      July 6, 2015


processed or forwarded through any one of the distribution tree's path.
If any multi-destination frame is received from the wrong pseudowire at
a VTSD, the TRILL protocol running in VTSD should perform a RPF check as
specified in [RFC7180bis] and drops the packet. 

Pruning mechanism of Distribution Tree as specified in [RFC6325] and
[RFC7180bis] can also be used for forwarding of multi-destination data
frames on the branches that are not pruned.    

4.5.2 Unicast Frame processing

Unicast frames must be forwarded in same way they get forwarded in a
standard TRILL Campus as specified in [RFC6325]. If multiple equal cost
paths are available over pseudowires to reach destination, then VTSD
should be capable of doing ECMP for them.


5.  Extensions to TRILL Over Pseudowires [RFC7173]

The [RFC7173] mentions how to interconnect a pair of Transparent
Interconnection of Lots of Links (TRILL) switch ports using pseudowires.
This document explains, how to connect multiple TRILL sites (not limited
to only two sites) using the mechanisms and encapsulations defined in
[RFC7173].


6.  VPTS Model Versus VPLS Model

VPLS Model uses a simpler loop breaking rule: the "split horizon" rule,
where a PE must not forward traffic from one PW to another in the same
VPLS mesh.

An issue with the above rule is that if a pseudowire between PEs fails,
frames will not get forwarded between the PEs where pseudowire went
down.

VPTS solves this problem, since the VPTS Model uses distribution Trees
for loop free topology, so frames reach all TIRs even when any one of
the pseudowires fails in a mesh topology.

If equal cost paths are available to reach a site over pseudowires, VPTS
Model can use ECMP for processing of frames over pseudowires. 






 


M.Umair & K.Smiler      Expires January 7, 2016                [Page 11]

INTERNET DRAFT   TRILL Transparent Transport over MPLS      July 6, 2015


7.  Security Considerations

For general TRILL security considerations, see [RFC6325]

For transport of TRILL by Pseudowires security consideration, see
[RFC7173].

Since VPTS Model uses Distribution tree for processing of multi-
destination data frames, it is always advisable to run at least one
Distribution tree in a TRILL site per tenant, this will avoid data
frames getting received on TRILL sites where end-station service is not
enabled for that data frame.    




8.  IANA Considerations

This document requires no IANA actions. RFC Editor: Please delete this
section before publication


9.  References

9.1  Normative References


     [RFC6325]     Perlman, R., Eastlake 3rd, D., Dutt, D., Gai, S., and
                   A.Ghanwani, "Routing Bridges (RBridges): Base        
                   Protocol Specification", RFC 6325, July 2011.


     [RF7180bis]     Eastlake 3rd, D., Zhang, M., Perlman, R., Banerjee,
                     A., A.Ghanwani, and Gupta, S, "Routing Bridges     
                    (RBridges): TRILL: Clarifications, Corrections, and 
                     Updates", work in progress.                        
                     "https://tools.ietf.org/html/draft-ietf-trill-
     rfc7180bis-05"



     [RFC7173]     Yong, L., Eastlake 3rd, D., Aldrin, S., and          
                   Hudson, J, "Transparent Interconnection of Lots of   
                   Links (TRILL) Transport Using Pseudowires",          
                   RFC 7173, May 2014.


     [RFC4762]     Lasserre, M., and Kompella, V., Virtual Private LAN  
 


M.Umair & K.Smiler      Expires January 7, 2016                [Page 12]

INTERNET DRAFT   TRILL Transparent Transport over MPLS      July 6, 2015


                   Service (VPLS) Using Label Distribution Protocol     
                  (LDP) Signaling, RFC 4762, January 2007


     [RFC4026]     Andersson, L., and Madsen, T., Provider Provisioned  
                   Virtual Private Network (VPN) Terminology, RFC 4026, 
                   March 2005


     [RFC4664]     Andersson, L., and Rosen, E., Framework for Layer 2  
                   Virtual Private Networks (L2VPNs), RFC 4664,         
                   September 2006





9.2  Informative References


              [IS-IS]    ISO/IEC 10589:2002, Second Edition,            
                         "Information technology -- Telecommunications  
                         and information exchange between systems --    
                         Intermediate System to Intermediate System     
                         intra-domain routeing information exchange     
                         protocol for use in conjunction with the       
                         protocol for providing the connectionless-mode 
                         network service (ISO 8473)", 2002.

              [RFC3985]   Bryant, S., Ed., and P. Pate, Ed., "Pseudo    
                          Wire Emulation Edge-to-Edge (PWE3)            
                          Architecture", RFC 3985, March 2005.

              [RFC4023]   Worster, T., Rekhter, Y., and E. Rosen, Ed.,  
                          "Encapsulating MPLS in IP or Generic Routing  
                          Encapsulation (GRE)", RFC 4023, March 2005.

              [RFC4448]   Martini, L., Ed., Rosen, E., El-Aawar, N., and
                          G. Heron, "Encapsulation Methods for Transport
                          of Ethernet over MPLS Networks", RFC 4448,    
                          April 2006.

              [RFC7177]   Eastlake 3rd, D., Perlman, R., Ghanwani, A.,  
                          Yang, H., and V. Manral, "Transparent         
                          Interconnection of Lots of Links (TRILL):     
                          Adjacency", RFC 7177, May 2014.


 


M.Umair & K.Smiler      Expires January 7, 2016                [Page 13]

INTERNET DRAFT   TRILL Transparent Transport over MPLS      July 6, 2015


              [RFC7172]   Eastlake 3rd, D., Zhang, R., Agarwal, P.,     
                          Perlman, R., and Dutt, D, "Transparent        
                          Interconnection of Lots of Links (TRILL):     
                          Fine-Grained Labeling", RFC 7172, May 2014.






Authors' Addresses


   Mohammed Umair
   IP Infusion
   RMZ Centennial
   Mahadevapura Post
   Bangalore - 560048 India

   EMail: mohammed.umair2@gmail.com



   Kingston Smiler
   IP Infusion
   RMZ Centennial
   Mahadevapura Post
   Bangalore - 560048 India

   EMail: kingstonsmiler@gmail.com



   Donald E. Eastlake 3rd
   Huawei Technologies
   155 Beaver Street
   Milford, MA  01757
   USA

   Phone: +1-508-333-2270
   EMail: d3e3e3@gmail.com



   Lucy Yong
   Huawei Technologies
   5340 Legacy Drive
   Plano, TX  75024
 


M.Umair & K.Smiler      Expires January 7, 2016                [Page 14]

INTERNET DRAFT   TRILL Transparent Transport over MPLS      July 6, 2015


   USA

   Phone: +1-469-227-5837
   EMail: lucy.yong@huawei.com















































M.Umair & K.Smiler      Expires January 7, 2016                [Page 15]
