New Request for Comments are now available from the Network
Information Center in the online library at NIC.DDN.MIL.

	RFC 1212:

        Title:      Concise MIB Definitions
	Author:     M. Rose & K. McCloghrie, Editors
	Mailbox:    mrose@psi.com, kzm@hls.com
	Pages:      19      
	Characters: 43,579
	Obsoletes/Updates: none

		pathname: RFC:RFC1212.TXT


This memo defines a format for producing MIB modules.  This RFC
specifies a Proposed Standard Protocol for the Internet community, and
requests discussion and suggestions for improvements.  Please refer to
the current edition of the "IAB Official Protocol Standards" for the
standardization state and status of this protocol.  Distribution of
this memo is unlimited.


        RFC 1213:

        Title:      Management Information Base for Network Management
                    of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II
	Author:     K. McCloghrie & M. Rose, Editors
	Mailbox:    kzm@hls.com, mrose@psi.com
	Pages:      70
	Characters: 146,080
	Obsoletes:  RFC 1158

		pathname: RFC:RFC1213.TXT


This memo defines the second version of the Management Information
Base (MIB-II) for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-
based internets.  This RFC specifies a Draft Standard Protocol
for the Internet community, and requests discussion and suggestions
for improvements.  Please refer to the current edition of the "IAB
Official Protocol Standards" for the standardization state and status
of this protocol.  Distribution of this memo is unlimited.

RFCs can be obtained via FTP from NIC.DDN.MIL, NIS.NSF.NET, or
NISC.JVNC.NET.

RFCs can be obtained via FTP from NIC.DDN.MIL, with the pathname
RFC:RFCnnnn.TXT (where "nnnn" refers to the number of the RFC).  Login
with FTP, username "anonymous" and password "guest".

The NIC also provides an automatic mail service for those sites which
cannot use FTP.  Address the request to SERVICE@NIC.DDN.MIL and in the
subject field of the message indicate the RFC number, as in "Subject:
RFC nnnn".

To obtain RFCs from NIS.NSF.NET via FTP,, login with username
"anonymous" and password "guest"; then connect to the RFC directory
("cd RFC").  The file name is of the form RFCnnnn.TXT-1 (where "nnnn"
refers to the number of the RFC).

The NIS also provides an automatic mail service for those sites which
cannot use FTP.  Address the request to NIS-INFO@NIS.NSF.NET and leave
the subject field of the message blank.  The first line of the text of
the message must be "SEND RFCnnnn.TXT-1", where nnnn is replaced by
the RFC number.

RFCs can also be obtained via FTP from NISC.JVNC.NET, with the
pathname rfc/RFCnnnn.TXT.v.Z (where "nnnn" refers to the number of the
RFC and "v" refers to the version number of the RFC).  There are a
number of RFCs available in postscript format.  Those RFCs have
modifiers of .PS instead of .TXT.  Login with FTP, username
"anonymous" and your e-mail address as your password.

JvNCnet also provides a mail service for those sites which cannot use
FTP.  Address the request to NISC@JVNC.NET and in the subject field of
the message indicate the RFC number, as in "Subject: RFC nnnn".

Requests for special distribution should be addressed to either the
author of the RFC in question, or to NIC@NIC.DDN.MIL.  Unless
specifically noted otherwise on the RFC itself, all RFCs are for
unlimited distribution.

Submissions for Requests for Comments should be sent to
POSTEL@ISI.EDU.  Please consult RFC 1111, "Instructions to RFC
Authors", for further information.

Requests to be added to or deleted from this distribution list should
be sent to RFC-REQUEST@NIC.DDN.MIL.


Joyce K. Reynolds
USC/Information Sciences Institute

