
Internet Engineering Task Force                 Jun-ichiro itojun Hagino
INTERNET-DRAFT                                   IIJ Research Laboratory
Expires: February 17, 2001                               August 17, 2000


                 Guidelines for IPv6 local experiments
               draft-itojun-ipv6-local-experiment-00.txt

Status of this Memo


This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''


     The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
     http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

     The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
     http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.



To view the list Internet-Draft Shadow Directories, see
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

Distribution of this memo is unlimited.

The internet-draft will expire in 6 months.  The date of expiration will
be February 17, 2001.


Abstract

The memo defines how a (IPv6-wise) disconnected network should conduct
local IPv6 experiment.  The document tries to give guidelines for novice
IPv6 experimenters, and tries to help them from falling into common
pitfalls.


1.  Problem space

There are potential IPv6 users who would like to perform experiments
locally, in their IPv6 network disjoint from the worldwide IPv6 network
at large (or 6bone).

Site-local address [Hinden, 1998] could be used where appropriate.
However, site-local address has several operational differences from
global address (like below), and it is harder for novice users to
configure site-local address right than global address.  Also, due to
the differences, some of the things the user learnt from local
experiments may not be directly relevant when they get connected to the


HAGINO                 Expires: February 17, 2001               [Page 1]


DRAFT                    IPv6 local experiments              August 2000

worldwide IPv6 network - it reduces usefulness of their local
experiments.

o Site-local addresses are "scoped" address, while global addresses are
  not.

o Configuration must correctly identify site border routers.  This is an
  additional requirement.

o There are proposals on scoped routing exist [Deering, 2000] , however,
  implementation status is still rather disappointing.

For experiments over single link, link-local address could be used.
However, again, link-local address is a scoped address, and has radical
operational differences from global IPv6 (or IPv4) address.


2.  Recommendations

First of all, do not cook up IPv6 prefix on your own.  You cannot pick
random prefix number, that can jeopadize the whole point of experiment.

Next, it is recommended to use global addresses for early stage of
experiments.  As presented in the previous section, scoped (site-
local/link-local) IPv6 addresses have different operational
characteritics from global IPv6 addresses.  In the later stage of
experients, you may want to play with scoped addresses, and try to
understand how they behave.

2.1.  A site with 6bone site/IPv6 ISP nearby

If it is possible, try to contact nearest upstream 6bone site, or
upstream ISP, to give you an IPv6 prefix.  By getting IPv6 address space
properly, the site will have less problem when they get conneted to the
worldwide IPv6 network.  The address space can (supposedly) be used for
future IPv6 upstream connectivity.

2.2.  A site with global IPv4 connectivity

Whenever the site has a global IPv4 address with it, the site should use
the 6to4 IPv6 address prefix [Carpenter, 2000] derived from the IPv4
address space, for local experiments.  The prefix will be
2002:xxyy:zzuu::/48, where "xxyy:zzuu" is a hexadecimal notation of an
IPv4 global address that belongs to the site.  For detailed discussion,
please refer to 6to4 document.

2.3.  Completely disconnected site

If the site has no permanent global IPv4 address with it (like dialup
customer site), the site has two choices.




HAGINO                 Expires: February 17, 2001               [Page 2]


DRAFT                    IPv6 local experiments              August 2000

o The site may use site local address space.  The operation needs great
  care as presented above.

o The site may use the address prefix: 3ffe:0501:ffff::/48.  The address
  prefix was curved out from WIDE 6bone prefix.  The site MUST be
  renumbered, before the site gets connected to the worldwide IPv6
  network.

In both cases, the assigned prefix MUST NOT be advertised to the
worldwide IPv6 network, from anywhere.

2.4.  Other comments

If there are multiple administrative domains in the site, the site is
responsible for its internal coordination (the draft cannot solve your
local politics).


3.  Security considerations

The document talks about no security issues.


References

Hinden, 1998.
R. Hinden and S. Deering, "IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture" in
RFC2373 (July 1998). ftp://ftp.isi.edu/in-notes/rfc2373.txt.

Deering, 2000.
S. Deering, B. Haberman, and B. Zill, ""IP Version 6 Scoped Address
Architecture"," internet draft (March 2000). work in progress material.

Carpenter, 2000.
Brian Carpenter and Keith Moore, "Connection of IPv6 Domains via IPv4
Clouds without Explicit Tunnels" in draft-ietf-ngtrans-6to4-06.txt (June
2000). work in progress.


Change history

None.


Acknowledgements

The draft was written based on discussions with Japanese IPv6 users, and
help from WIDE research group.






HAGINO                 Expires: February 17, 2001               [Page 3]


DRAFT                    IPv6 local experiments              August 2000

Author's address

     Jun-ichiro itojun HAGINO
     Research Laboratory, Internet Initiative Japan Inc.
     Takebashi Yasuda Bldg.,
     3-13 Kanda Nishiki-cho,
     Chiyoda-ku,Tokyo 101-0054, JAPAN
     Tel: +81-3-5259-6350
     Fax: +81-3-5259-6351
     Email: itojun@iijlab.net












































HAGINO                 Expires: February 17, 2001               [Page 4]

