
                     Definitions of Managed Objects
                                for APPN

                             March 04, 1996


                         Bob Clouston (editor)
                             Cisco Systems
                           clouston@cisco.com



                           Bob Moore (editor)
                            IBM Corporation
                      remoore@ralvm6.vnet.ibm.com



                   <draft-ietf-snanau-appnmib-00.txt>




1.  Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months.
Internet-Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
documents at any time.  It is not appropriate to use Internet-Drafts as
reference material or to cite them other than as a working draft or work
in progress.

To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
1id-abstracts.txt listing contained in the Internet-Drafts Shadow
Directories on ds.internic.net, nic.nordu.net, ftp.isi.edu, or
munnari.oz.au.

2.  Introduction

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for monitoring and controlling network



Expires September 04, 1996                                      [Page 1]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


devices with APPN (Advanced Peer-to-Peer Networking) capabilities.  This
memo identifies managed objects for the SNA APPN protocol.


This memo does not specify a standard for the Internet community.

3.  The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework

The Internet-standard Network Management Framework presently consists of
three major components.  They are:

o    RFC 1902 [1] which defines the SMI, the mechanisms used for
     describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.

o    STD 17, RFC 1213 [2] which defines MIB-II, the core set of managed
     objects for the Internet suite of protocols.

o    RFC 1157 [3] and/or RFC 1905 [4] which defines the protocol used
     for network accesss to managed objects.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.


4.  Overview

This document identifies the proposed set of objects for monitoring the
configuration and active characteristics of devices with APPN
capabilities, and for controlling certain characteristics.  APPN is the
aspect of SNA that supports peer-to-peer networking.  These networks
transport both independent and dependent LU session traffic.  See the
SNANAU APPC MIB [8] and the SNA NAU MIB (RFC 1666 [9]) for management of
these sessions.  See also the DLUR MIB[10], and the HPR MIB, which is
currently under development, for management of extensions to the APPN
architecture.  In this document, we describe APPN managed objects.

An APPN network is comprised of various types of nodes, and transmission
groups (TGs) that connect the nodes. Network nodes (NNs) provide
directory and routing functions for session establishment.  NNs may be
session end points or intermediate nodes in a session.  A border node is
a type of network node that connects networks together for session
establishment without fully merging them.  End nodes (ENs) are session
end points that receive directory and routing functions from network
nodes, over control-point to control-point (CP-CP) sessions.  Low-entry
networking (LEN) nodes are also session end points, but do not support
CP-CP sessions, and therefore need additional manual configuration



Expires September 04, 1996                                      [Page 2]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


definitions to establish sessions in an APPN network.  ENs and LEN nodes
may have minimal directory and routing functions to establish control
sessions (ENs) or to connect into the APPN network (LEN nodes).  Virtual
routing nodes (VRNs) are not really nodes, but rather common definitions
among actual nodes in a shared transport facility such as a LAN that
allow these actual nodes to temporarily establish a logical link with
one another without defining each other's link-level addressing
information.

Ports and link stations are the node's interface to the data link
control (DLC), which provides the physical transport, or to another
protocol such as Data Link Switching (DLSw), which provides transport
over an IP network.  A link station uses a port to make a connection to
another node.  This connection establishes a TG between the two nodes.

The directory and routing functions enable an NN to find where an LU is
located in the network, and calculate the optimal route for the session
based on the requested class of service (COS).  A network node saves the
LU information in a directory database, which is built from LUs defined
locally, LU registration from served end nodes, and LUs learned from
network searches.

Each NN maintains a local class-of-service database that assigns a
routing weight, or relative cost, to each resource for each class of
service.  For example, the #INTER COS assigns a lower weight to TGs with
a greater effective capacity, while the #BATCH COS favors TGs with a
lower relative cost per byte.

A node saves network topology information (on NNs, VRNs, and TGs between
them) in a network topology database.  The topology information includes
state and routing characteristics.  Topology information is exchanged
between NNs over CP-CP sessions such that the database is fully
replicated at each NN.  Information on TGs from NNs to ENs are kept in a
local topology database.  Local topology information is shared with
other NNs only during the session establishment process, to give the NN
responsible for route calculation the necessary information for end-to-
end route calculation.

SNA names such as LU names, CP names, COS names, and mode names can be
padded with blanks (space characters) in SNA formats.  These blanks are
nonsignificant.  For example, in a BIND RU a COS name of "#INTER" with a
length of 6 is identical to a COS name of "#INTER  " with a length of 8.
However, in this MIB, nonsignificant blanks are not included by the
agent.   Using the COS name from the previous example, an agent would
return a length of 6 and the string "#INTER" with no blanks for
appnCosName, regardless of how it appears in the BIND RU or in internal



Expires September 04, 1996                                      [Page 3]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


storage.  The lone exception is the all blank mode name, for which the
agent returns a length of 8 and the string "        " (8 blank spaces).

When an SNA name is functioning as a table index, an agent treats
trailing blanks as significant.  If a management station requests the
objects from a row with index "#INTER  ", the agent does not match this
to the row with index "#INTER".  Since an agent has no nonsignificant
blanks in any of its table indices, the only reason for a Management
Station to include them would be to start GetNext processing at a chosen
point in a table.  For example, a GetNext request with index "M       "
would start retrieval from a table at the first row with an 8-character
index beginning with M or a letter after M.

The SNA/APPN terms and overall architecture are documented in [5], [6],
and [7].

Highlights of the management functions supported by the APPN MIB module
include the following:


o    Activating and deactivating ports and link stations.

o    Monitoring of configuration parameters related to the node, ports,
     link stations, virtual routing nodes, and classes of service.

o    Monitoring of operational parameters related to ports, link
     stations, virtual routing nodes, topology, directory, and
     intermediate sessions.

o    Historical information about link station errors during connection
     establishment, or that caused the connection to terminate.

o    Deactivating intermediate sessions.

o    Traps for SNA/MS Alert conditions.


This MIB module does not support:


o    Configuration of APPN nodes.

o    Monitoring and control of endpoint sessions.

o    Dependent LU Requester (DLUR) management.




Expires September 04, 1996                                      [Page 4]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


o    High-Performance Routing (HPR) management.


4.1.  APPC MIB Structure

The APPN MIB module contains the following groups of objects:


o    appnNode - objects related to the APPN node for all node types.

o    appnNn   - objects to represent the network nodes, virtual routing
     nodes, and TGs between these nodes that make up the APPN network
     topology database maintained in NNs.

o    appnLocalTopology  - objects to represent nodes and TGs between
     nodes in the local topology database maintained in all nodes.

o    appnDir  - objects related to LU location information from the
     node's directory database.

o    appnCos  - objects related to classes of service information.

o    appnSessIntermediate - objects related to intermediate sessions
     that pass through this node.


These groups are described below in more detail.


4.1.1.  appnNode group

The appnNode group consists of the following tables and objects:

1) appnGeneralInfoAndCaps

This group of objects describes general information about the APPN node.
The type of information includes the node type and the time since this
node was initialized.

2) appnNnUniqueInfoAndCaps

This group of objects describes information specific to network nodes
such as node routing characteristics.

3) appnEnUniqueInfoAndCaps




Expires September 04, 1996                                      [Page 5]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


This group of objects describes information specific to end nodes,
including its network node server.

4) appnPortInformation

This includes the appnPortTable, which describes the configuration and
current status of the ports used by APPN, including the port state and
DLC type.

5) appnLinkStationInformation

This includes the appnNodeLsTable, which describe the configuration and
current status of the link stations used by APPN, including the link
state and port name; and the appnLsStatusTable, which provides
information about errors this node encountered with connections to
adjacent nodes, such as the sense data captured during connection
failures.  It is a product option to decide how many appnLsStatusTable
entries are kept.

6) appnVrnInfo

This includes the appnVrnTable, which describes the relationship between
virtual routing nodes' TGs described in the appnLocalTgTable with ports
in the appnPortTable.


4.1.2.  appnNn group

The appnNn group consists of the following objects and tables

1) appnNnTopo

These objects contain general information about the network topology
database including the number of nodes present, and the number of TDU
wars the node has detected.

2) appnNnTopology

This includes tables representing the APPN network topology database.
This includes the network nodes, virtual routing nodes, and TGs between
these nodes, as well as the information about these resources carried in
topology updates.  The tables are first indexed by the same flow
reduction sequence number (FRSN) used in topology exchanges between NNs.
This allows a management station to retrieve only incremental updates,
since the agent will update the FRSN of new or changed resources.




Expires September 04, 1996                                      [Page 6]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


4.1.3.  appnLocalTopology group

The appnLocalTopology group consists of the following objects and
tables:

1) appnLocalThisNode

 a) appnLocalGeneral

 Contains the local node and type.

 b) appnLocalNnSpecific

 These objects contains routing information about the local network
node.

 c) appnLocalTg

 This table represents information about this node's local TGs.

2) appnLocalEnTopology

This table represent TG information for EN TGs learned by the NN via TG
registration with the local node.


4.1.4.  appnDir group

The appnDir group consists of the following objects and tables:

1) appnDirPerf

These objects represent information related to information about the
directory database and directory searches involving this node.

2) appnDirTable

This table represents the directory database, listing LUs known to this
node, along with the owning node of the LU and the serving NN of the
owning node.


4.1.5.  appnCos group

The appnCos group consists of the following tables:




Expires September 04, 1996                                      [Page 7]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


1) appnCosModeTable

This table represents the mode to class of service mapping.

2) appnCosNameTable

This table represents the tranmission priority for each class of
service.

3) appnCosNodeRowTable

This table represents the node-row information for each class of
service, including the weight of each node.

3) appnCosTGRowTable

This table represents the TG-row information for each class of service,
including the weight of each TG.


4.1.6.  appnSessIntermediate group

The appnSessIntermediate group consists of the following objects and
tables:

1) appnIsInGlobal

These objects allow control of the collection of intermediate session
information such as RSCVs and counters.

2) appnIsInTable

This table contains information on active intermediate sessions.

3) appnIsRtpTable

This table contains information on active intermediate sessions that are
being transported on RTP connections by HPR.


4.1.7.  appnTraps

One APPN trap is defined.  It is intended to correspond to SNA/MS
Alerts, but is optional for a product to implement this trap.  The trap
identifies the Alert ID number and, where possible, the affected
resource.



Expires September 04, 1996                                      [Page 8]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


5.  Definitions

APPN-MIB DEFINITIONS          ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS

        IANAifType
                FROM IANAifType-MIB

        DisplayString, VariablePointer, DateAndTime, TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
                FROM SNMPv2-TC

        experimental, Counter32, Gauge32, Integer32, TimeTicks,
        OBJECT-TYPE, MODULE-IDENTITY, NOTIFICATION-TYPE
                FROM SNMPv2-SMI

        MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP
                FROM SNMPv2-CONF;


appnMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
        LAST-UPDATED  "9603040000Z"
        ORGANIZATION  "IETF SNA NAU MIB WG / AIW APPN/HPR MIBs SIG"
        CONTACT-INFO

                "

                        Bob Clouston
                        Cisco Systems
                        7025 Kit Creek Road
                        P.O. Box 14987
                        Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA
                        Tel:    1 919 472 2333
                        E-mail: clouston@cisco.com

                        Bob Moore
                        IBM Corporation
                        800 Park Offices Drive
                        CNMA/664
                        P.O. Box 12195
                        Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA
                        Tel:    1 919 254 4436
                        E-mail: remoore@ralvm6.vnet.ibm.com
                "
      DESCRIPTION
                "This is the MIB module for objects used to



Expires September 04, 1996                                      [Page 9]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


                 manage network devices with APPN capabilities."

::= { experimental 1000 }
-- *********************************************************************
  appnObjects             OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnMIB 1 }
-- *********************************************************************

-- *********************************************************************
-- Textual Convention
-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
SnaSenseData ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "To facilitate their display by a Management Station, sense
          data objects in the MIB are represented as DisplayStrings of
          size 8.  Eight '0' characters indicates that no sense data
          identifying an SNA error condition is available."

      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (8))

-- ******************** The APPN Node Group ****************************

appnNode              OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnObjects 1 }
  appnGeneralInfoAndCaps      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnNode 1 }
  appnNnUniqueInfoAndCaps     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnNode 2 }
  appnEnUniqueCaps            OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnNode 3 }
  appnPortInformation         OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnNode 4 }
  appnLinkStationInformation  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnNode 5 }
  appnVrnInfo                 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnNode 6 }

-- This group provides global information about an APPN network node,
-- an APPN end node, or an LEN node.

-- The first section applies to all three node types.
-- The second section applies only to APPN network nodes.
-- The third section applies only to APPN end nodes and to LEN nodes.
-- The fourth section applies to all three node types.
-- The fifth section applies to all three node types.
-- The sixth section applies only to APPN network nodes.

-- APPN General Information
-- This section applies to both APPN network and end nodes, and to
-- LEN nodes.

appnNodeCpName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (3..17))



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 10]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned network name for this node in the
          format NetId.CpName."

      ::= { appnGeneralInfoAndCaps 1 }

appnNodeMibVersion OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString  (SIZE (11))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The value of LAST-UPDATED from this module's MODULE-IDENTITY
          macro.  This object gives a Management Station an easy way of
          determining the level of the MIB supported by an agent."

      ::= { appnGeneralInfoAndCaps 2 }

appnNodeId OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString  (SIZE (8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The node_id consists of two parts:

            The block number is the first three digits of the node_id.
            These 3 hexadecimal digits identify the product.

            The ID number is the last 5 digits of the node_id.  These
            5 hexadecimal digits are administratively defined and
            combined with the 3-digit block number form the node_id.
            This node_id is used to identify the local node in XIDs.
            A unique value is required for connections to SNA subarea.
            In some implementations, the value of 'bbb00000' (where
            'bbb' represents a 3-digit block number) is returned
            to mean that the ID number is not unique on this node."

      ::= { appnGeneralInfoAndCaps 3 }

appnNodeType OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     networkNode(1),
                     endNode(2),
                     t21len(4)
                     }



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 11]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Type of APPN node, either network, LEN, or end node."

      ::= { appnGeneralInfoAndCaps 4 }

appnNodeUpTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX TimeTicks
      UNITS "hundredths of a second"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Amount of time (in hundredths of a second) since the
          APPN node was last re-initialized."

      ::= { appnGeneralInfoAndCaps 5 }

appnNodeParallelTg OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether this node supports parallel TGs."

      ::= { appnGeneralInfoAndCaps 6 }

appnNodeAdaptiveBindPacing OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether this node supports adaptive bind pacing for
          dependent LUs."

      ::= { appnGeneralInfoAndCaps 7 }

appnNodeHprSupport OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                 noHprSupport(1),
                 hprBaseOnly(2),
                 rtpTower(3),
                 controlFlowsOverRtpTower(4)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 12]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates this node's level of support for high performance
          routing (HPR).

          This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 9, bits 3-4."

      ::= { appnGeneralInfoAndCaps 8 }

appnNodeMaxSessPerHprConn OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This object represents the maximum number of sessions that
          APPN would put on any HPR connection.  The value is zero if not
          applicable."

      ::= { appnGeneralInfoAndCaps 9 }

appnNodeHprIntRteSetups OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of HPR route setups received for routes
          passing through this node since the node was last
          re-initialized."

      ::= { appnGeneralInfoAndCaps 10 }

appnNodeHprIntRteRejects OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The number of HPR route setups rejected by this node for
          routes passing through it since the node was last
          re-initialized."

      ::= { appnGeneralInfoAndCaps 11 }

appnNodeHprOrgRteSetups OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 13]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


          "The total number of HPR route setups sent for routes
          originating in this node since the node was last
          re-initialized."

      ::= { appnGeneralInfoAndCaps 12 }

appnNodeHprOrgRteRejects OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The number of HPR route setups rejected by other nodes for
          routes originating in this node since the node was last
          re-initialized."

      ::= { appnGeneralInfoAndCaps 13 }

appnNodeHprEndRteSetups OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of HPR route setups received for routes
          ending in this node since the node was last re-initialized."

      ::= { appnGeneralInfoAndCaps 14 }

appnNodeHprEndRteRejects OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The number of HPR route setups rejected by this node for
          routes ending in it since the node was last re-initialized."

      ::= { appnGeneralInfoAndCaps 15 }


-- *********************************************************************
-- APPN Network Node Information
-- This section provides global information about an APPN network node.

appnNodeNnCentralDirectory OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 14]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether this node supports central directory
          services.

          This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 8, bit 1."

      ::= { appnNnUniqueInfoAndCaps 1 }

appnNodeNnTreeCache OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     noCache(1),
                     cacheNoIncrUpdate(2),
                     cacheWithIncrUpdate(3)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether this node supports route tree cache, and if
          so, incremental updates to the route tree cache."

      ::= { appnNnUniqueInfoAndCaps 2 }

appnNodeNnRouteAddResist OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Route addition resistance.

          This administratively assigned value indicates the relative
          desirability of using this node for intermediate session
          traffic.  The value, which can be any integer 0-255, is used
          in route computation.  The lower the value, the more
          desirable the node is for intermediate routing.

          This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 6."

      ::= { appnNnUniqueInfoAndCaps 3 }

appnNodeNnIsr OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the node supports intermediate session
          routing.



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 15]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


          This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 8, bit 2."

      ::= { appnNnUniqueInfoAndCaps 4 }

appnNodeNnFrsn OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The last flow-reduction sequence number (FRSN) sent by this
          node in a topology update to an adjacent network node."

      ::= { appnNnUniqueInfoAndCaps 5 }

appnNodeNnPeriBorderSup OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether this node has peripheral border node
          support.

          This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 9, bit 0."

      ::= { appnNnUniqueInfoAndCaps 6 }

appnNodeNnInterchangeSup OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether this node has interchange node support.

          This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 9, bit 1."

      ::= { appnNnUniqueInfoAndCaps 7 }

appnNodeNnExteBorderSup OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether this node has extended border node support.

          This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 9, bit 2."




Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 16]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      ::= { appnNnUniqueInfoAndCaps 8 }


appnNodeNnSafeStoreFreq OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      UNITS "TDUs"
      MAX-ACCESS read-write
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The topology safe store frequency.

          If the total number of topology database updates received by
          this node exceeds this non-zero value by an even multiple, the
          topology database is saved.  A value of zero indicates that the
          topology database is not being saved."

      ::= { appnNnUniqueInfoAndCaps 9 }

appnNodeNnRsn OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Resource sequence number for this node, which it assigns and
          controls.

          This object corresponds to cv4580, bytes 2-5."

      ::= { appnNnUniqueInfoAndCaps 10 }

appnNodeNnCongested OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether this node is congested.  Other network nodes
          stop routing traffic to this node while this flag is on.

          This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 7, bit 0."

      ::= { appnNnUniqueInfoAndCaps 11 }

appnNodeNnIsrDepleted OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 17]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicate whether intermediated session routing resources are
          depleted.  Other network nodes stop routing traffic through
          this node while this flag is on.

          This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 7, bit 1."

      ::= { appnNnUniqueInfoAndCaps 12 }

appnNodeNnQuiescing OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the node is quiescing.

          This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 7, bit 5."

      ::= { appnNnUniqueInfoAndCaps 13 }

appnNodeNnGateway OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the node has gateway services support.

          This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 8, bit 0."

      ::= { appnNnUniqueInfoAndCaps 14 }


-- *********************************************************************
-- APPN End Node Information

appnNodeEnModeCosMap OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether this end node supports mode name to COS name
          mapping."

      ::= { appnEnUniqueCaps 1 }

appnNodeEnNnServer OBJECT-TYPE



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 18]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (0 | 3..17))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The fully qualified name of the current NN server for this end
          node.  Format is NetId.CpName.  The value is a zero-length
          string when there is no active NN server."

      ::= { appnEnUniqueCaps 2 }

appnNodeEnLuSearch OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the node is to be searched for LUs as part
          of a network broadcast search."

      ::= { appnEnUniqueCaps 3 }


-- *********************************************************************
-- APPN Port information
--

appnPortTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF AppnPortEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The Port table describes the configuration and current status
          of the ports used by APPN.  When it is known to the APPN
          component, an OBJECT IDENTIFIER pointing to additional
          information related to the port is included.  This may, but
          need not, be the value of ifIndex for a DLC immediately 'below'
          the port."

      ::= { appnPortInformation 1 }

appnPortEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX AppnPortEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The port name is used as the index to this table."




Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 19]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      INDEX
             { appnPortName }

      ::= { appnPortTable 1 }

AppnPortEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
      appnPortName                 DisplayString,
      appnPortAdminState           INTEGER,
      appnPortOperState            INTEGER,
      appnPortDlcType              IANAifType,
      appnPortPortType             INTEGER,
      appnPortSIMRIM               INTEGER,
      appnPortLsRole               INTEGER,
      appnPortNegotLs              INTEGER,
      appnPortDynamicLinkSupport   INTEGER,
      appnPortMaxRcvBtuSize        INTEGER,
      appnPortMaxIframeWindow      Integer32,
      appnPortDefLsGoodXids        Counter32,
      appnPortDefLsBadXids         Counter32,
      appnPortDynLsGoodXids        Counter32,
      appnPortDynLsBadXids         Counter32,
      appnPortSpecific             OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
      appnPortDlcLocalAddr         DisplayString
                     }

appnPortName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (1..10))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned name for this APPN port."

      ::= { appnPortEntry 1 }

appnPortAdminState OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER    {
                         inactive(1),
                         active(3),
                         ready(5)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-write
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Object by which a Management Station can activate or
          deactivate a port, by setting the value to active(3) or
          inactive(1), respectively.  The value ready(5) has no meaning



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 20]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


          on a set operation; it is returned in response to a get
          operation if no set operation has been directed to this
          object."

      ::= { appnPortEntry 2 }

appnPortOperState OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER    {
                         inactive(1),
                         pendactive(2),
                         active(3),
                         pendinact(4)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates the current state of this port."

      ::= { appnPortEntry 3 }

appnPortDlcType OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX IANAifType
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The type of DLC interface, distinguished according to the
          protocol immediately 'below' this layer."

      ::= { appnPortEntry 4 }

appnPortPortType OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     leased(1),
                     switched(2),
                     sharedAccessFacilities(3)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Identifies the type of line used by this port."

      ::= { appnPortEntry 5 }

appnPortSIMRIM OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 21]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether Set Initialization Mode (SIM) and Receive
          Initialization Mode (RIM) are supported for this port."

      ::= { appnPortEntry 6 }

appnPortLsRole OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     primary(1),
                     secondary(2),
                     negotiable(3),
                     abm(4)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Initial role for LSs activated through this port, where 'abm'
          indicates asynchronous balance mode."

      ::= { appnPortEntry 7 }

appnPortNegotLs OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the node supports negotiable link stations
          for this port."

      ::= { appnPortEntry 8 }

appnPortDynamicLinkSupport OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether this node allows call-in on this port from
          nodes not defined locally."

      ::= { appnPortEntry 9 }

appnPortMaxRcvBtuSize OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (99..32767)
      UNITS "bytes"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 22]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Maximum Basic Transmission Size (BTU) that a link station on
          this port can receive.

          This object corresponds to bytes 21-22 of XID3."

      ::= { appnPortEntry 10 }

appnPortMaxIframeWindow OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Maximum number of I-frames that can be received by the XID
          sender before an acknowledgement is received."

      ::= { appnPortEntry 11 }

appnPortDefLsGoodXids OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX  Counter32
      UNITS "XID exchanges"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of successful XID exchanges that have
          occurred on all defined link stations on this port since the
          last time this port was started."

      ::= { appnPortEntry 12 }

appnPortDefLsBadXids OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX  Counter32
      UNITS "XID exchanges"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of unsuccessful XID exchanges that have
          occurred on all defined link stations on this port since the
          last time this port was started."

      ::= { appnPortEntry 13 }

appnPortDynLsGoodXids OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX  Counter32
      UNITS "XID exchanges"



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 23]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of successful XID exchanges that have
          occurred on all dynamic link stations on this port since the
          last time this port was started."

      ::= { appnPortEntry 14 }

appnPortDynLsBadXids OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX  Counter32
      UNITS "XID exchanges"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of unsuccessful XID exchanges that have
          occurred on all dynamic link stations on this port since the
          last time this port was started."

      ::= { appnPortEntry 15 }

appnPortSpecific OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OBJECT IDENTIFIER
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Identifies the object, e.g., one in a DLC-specific MIB, that
          can provide additional information related to this port."

      ::= { appnPortEntry 16 }

appnPortDlcLocalAddr OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (0..64))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Local DLC address of this port, represented as a
          DisplayString."

      ::= { appnPortEntry 17 }

-- *********************************************************************
-- APPN Link Station Information
--

appnLsTable OBJECT-TYPE



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 24]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF AppnLsEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This table contains detailed information about the link
          station configuration and its current status."

      ::= { appnLinkStationInformation 1 }

appnLsEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX AppnLsEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This table is indexed by the link station name."

      INDEX
             { appnLsName }

      ::= { appnLsTable 1 }

AppnLsEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
      appnLsName             DisplayString,
      appnLsAdminState       INTEGER,
      appnLsOperState        INTEGER,

      appnLsPortName         DisplayString,
      appnLsDlcType          IANAifType,
      appnLsDynamic          INTEGER,

      appnLsAdjCpName        DisplayString,
      appnLsAdjNodeType      INTEGER,
      appnLsTgNum            INTEGER,
      appnLsLimResource      INTEGER,
      appnLsActOnDemand      INTEGER,
      appnLsMigration        INTEGER,
      appnLsPartnerNodeId    DisplayString,
      appnLsCpCpSessionSupport INTEGER,

      appnLsTargetPacingCount INTEGER,
      appnLsMaxSendBtuSize    INTEGER,
-- performance data
      appnLsInXidBytes       Counter32,
      appnLsInMsgBytes       Counter32,
      appnLsInXidFrames      Counter32,
      appnLsInMsgFrames      Counter32,



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 25]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      appnLsOutXidBytes      Counter32,
      appnLsOutMsgBytes      Counter32,
      appnLsOutXidFrames     Counter32,
      appnLsOutMsgFrames     Counter32,
-- propagation delay
      appnLsEchoRsps         Counter32,
      appnLsCurrentDelay     Integer32,
      appnLsMaxDelay         Integer32,
      appnLsMinDelay         Integer32,
      appnLsMaxDelayTime     DateAndTime,
-- XID Statistics
      appnLsGoodXids         Counter32,
      appnLsBadXids          Counter32,
-- DLC-specific
      appnLsSpecific         OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
      appnLsActiveTime       TimeTicks,
      appnLsCurrentStateTime TimeTicks,
-- HPR-specific
      appnLsHprSup           INTEGER,
      appnLsDestHprTrans     INTEGER,
      appnLsErrRecoSup       INTEGER,
      appnLsForAnrLabel      OCTET STRING,
      appnLsRevAnrLabel      OCTET STRING,
      appnLsCpCpNceId        OCTET STRING,
      appnLsRouteNceId       OCTET STRING,

      appnLsLocalAddr        DisplayString,
      appnLsRemoteAddr       DisplayString,
      appnLsRemoteLsName     DisplayString
                     }

appnLsName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (1..10))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned name for the link station.
           The name can be from one to ten characters."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 1 }

appnLsAdminState OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                inactive(1),
                active(7),
                ready(99)



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 26]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-write
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Object by which a Management Station can activate or
          deactivate a link station, by setting the value to active(7) or
          inactive(1), respectively.  The value ready(99) has no meaning
          on a set operation; it is returned in response to a get
          operation if no set operation has been directed to this
          object."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 2 }

appnLsOperState OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER    {
          inactive(1),
          sentConnectOut(2),    -- pending active
          pendXidExch(3),       -- pending active
          sendActAs(4),         -- pending active
          sendSetMode(5),       -- pending active
          otherPendingActive(6),-- pending active
          active(7),
          sentDeactAsOrd(8),    -- pending inactive
          sentDiscOrd(9),       -- pending inactive
          sentDiscImmed(10),    -- pending inactive
          otherPendingInact(11) -- pending inactive
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "State of this link station."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 3 }

appnLsPortName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (1..10))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned name for the port associated with
          this link station.  The name can be from one to ten
          characters."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 4 }

appnLsDlcType OBJECT-TYPE



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 27]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      SYNTAX IANAifType
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The type of DLC interface, distinguished according to the
          protocol immediately 'below' this layer."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 5 }

appnLsDynamic OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Identifies whether this is a dynamic link station.  Dynamic
          link stations are created when links that have not been locally
          defined are established by adjacent nodes."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 6 }

appnLsAdjCpName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (0 | 3..17))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Fully qualified name of the adjacent node for this link
          station.  The name can be from three to seventeen characters.
          Format is NetId.CpName.

          The value of this object is determined as follows:

             1. If the adjacent node's name was received on XID, it
                is returned.

             2. If the adjacent node's name was not received on XID,
                but a locally-defined value is available, it is
                returned.

             3. Otherwise a string of length 0 is returned, indicating
                that no name is known for the adjacent node."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 7 }

appnLsAdjNodeType OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     networkNode(1),



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 28]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


                     endNode(2),
                     t21len(4),
                     unknown(255)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates the type of the adjacent node on this link."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 8 }

appnLsTgNum OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..256)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number associated with the TG to this link station, with a
          range from 0 to 256.  A value of 256 indicates that the TG
          number has not been negotiated and is unknown at this time."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 9 }

appnLsLimResource OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the link station is a limited resource.  A
          link station that is a limited resource is deactivated when it
          is no longer in use."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 10 }

appnLsActOnDemand OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the link station is activatable on demand.

          Such a link station is reported in the topology as active
          regardless of its actual state, so that it can be considered in
          route calculations.  If the link station is inactive and is
          chosen for a route, it will be activated at that time."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 11 }



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 29]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


appnLsMigration OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether this link station will be used for
          connections to down-level or migration partners.

          In general, migration nodes do not append their CP names on
          XID3.  Such nodes:  (1) will not support parallel TGs, (2)
          should be sent ACTPU (provided that the partner supports
          ACTPUs), and (3) should not be sent segmented BINDs.  However,
          if this node receives an XID3 with an appended CP name, then
          the partner node will not be treated as a migration node.

           In the case of DYNAMIC TGs this object should be set to 'no'."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 12 }

appnLsPartnerNodeId OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString  (SIZE (8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The partner's node_id consists of two parts:

            Block number of the partner node:  The block number is the
            first three digits of the node_id.  These 3 hexadecimal
            digits identify the product. The value is '000' when the
            partner node_id is not defined.

            ID number of the partner node:  The ID number is the last
            5 digits of the node_id.  These 5 hexadecimal digits are
            administratively defined and combined with the 3-digit
            block number form the node_id.  This node_id is used to
            identify the node in XIDs.  A unique value is required for
            connections to SNA subarea.  The value is '00000' when the
            partner node_id is not defined."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 13 }

appnLsCpCpSessionSupport OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 30]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


          "Indicates whether CP-CP sessions are supported by this
          link station.  For a dynamic link, this object represents
          the default ('Admin') value."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 14 }

-----------------------------------------------------------------------
-- FLAGGED FOR REMOVAL: In the absence of any comments, the following
-- object will be removed from the next version of the MIB.
-----------------------------------------------------------------------
appnLsTargetPacingCount OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..32767)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Numeric value between 0 and 32767 inclusive indicating the
          desired pacing window size for BINDs on this TG."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 15 }

appnLsMaxSendBtuSize OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (99..32767)
      UNITS "bytes"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Numeric value between 99 and 32767 inclusive indicating the
          desired number of bytes in a Basic Transmission Unit (BTU) sent
          on this link.

          When the link is inactive or activating, the value configured
          at this node is returned.  When the link is active, the value
          that was negotiated for it is returned.  This negotiated value
          is the smaller of the value configured at this node and the
          partner's maximum receive BTU length, received in XID."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 16 }

appnLsInXidBytes OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of XID bytes received."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 17 }



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 31]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


appnLsInMsgBytes OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of message (I-frame) bytes received."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 18 }

appnLsInXidFrames OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of XID frames received."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 19 }

appnLsInMsgFrames OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of message (I-frame) frames received."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 20 }

appnLsOutXidBytes OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of XID bytes sent."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 21 }

appnLsOutMsgBytes OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of message (I-frame) bytes sent."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 22 }

appnLsOutXidFrames OBJECT-TYPE



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 32]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of XID frames sent."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 23 }

appnLsOutMsgFrames OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of message (I-frame) frames sent."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 24 }

appnLsEchoRsps OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of responses returned from adjacent link station.  A
          response should be returned for each test frame sent by this
          node.  Test frames are sent to adjacent nodes periodically to
          verify connectivity and to measure the actual round trip time,
          that is, the time interval from when the test frame is sent
          until when the response is received."


      ::= { appnLsEntry 25 }

appnLsCurrentDelay OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      UNITS "milliseconds"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The time that it took for the last test signal to be sent and
          returned from this link station to the adjacent link station.
          This time is represented in milliseconds."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 26 }

appnLsMaxDelay OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 33]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      UNITS "milliseconds"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The longest time it took for a test signal to be sent and
          returned from this link station to the adjacent link station.
          This time is represented in milliseconds ."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 27 }

appnLsMinDelay OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      UNITS "milliseconds"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The shortest time it took for a test signal to be sent and
          returned from this link station to the adjacent link station.
          This time is represented in milliseconds."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 28 }

appnLsMaxDelayTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DateAndTime
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The time when the longest delay occurred.  This time can be
          used to identify when this high water mark occurred in relation
          to other events in the agent, such as the last time the APPN
          node was re-initialized."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 29 }

appnLsGoodXids OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX  Counter32
      UNITS "XID exchanges"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of successful XID exchanges that have
          occurred on this link station since the time it was started."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 30 }

appnLsBadXids OBJECT-TYPE



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 34]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      SYNTAX  Counter32
      UNITS "XID exchanges"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The total number of unsuccessful XID exchanges that have
          occurred on this link station since the time it was started."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 31 }

appnLsSpecific OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OBJECT IDENTIFIER
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Identifies the object, e.g., one in a DLC-specific MIB, that
          can provide additional information related to this link
          station."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 32 }

appnLsActiveTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX TimeTicks
      UNITS "hundredths of a second"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The cumulative amount of time since node activation, measured
          in hundredths of a second, that this link station has been in
          the active state.  A zero value indicates that the link station
          has never been active."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 33 }

appnLsCurrentStateTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX TimeTicks
      UNITS "hundredths of a second"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The amount of time, measured in hundredths of a second, that
          the link station has been in its current state."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 34 }

appnLsHprSup OBJECT-TYPE



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 35]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether or not high performance routing (HPR) is
          supported over this link.  If the link is not active, the
          defined value will be returned."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 35 }

appnLsDestHprTrans OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the destination node supports the
           high performance routing (HPR) RTP tower.
           If the link is not active, a value of NO will be returned."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 36 }

appnLsErrRecoSup OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the link station is supporting
           HPR link-level error recovery or not."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 37 }

appnLsForAnrLabel OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (0..8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The forward ANR label for this link station.  If the link does
          not support HPR or the value is unknown, a zero length string
          will be returned."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 38 }

appnLsRevAnrLabel OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (0..8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 36]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      DESCRIPTION
          "The reverse ANR label for this link station.  If the link does
          not support HPR or the value is unknown, a zero length string
          will be returned."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 39 }

appnLsCpCpNceId OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (0..8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The NCE ID for CP-CP sessions if this node supports
           HPR transport tower, a zero length string if the value
           is unknown or not meaningful for this node."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 40 }

appnLsRouteNceId OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (0..8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The NCE ID for Route Setup if this node supports the
           HPR transport tower, a zero length string if the value
           is unknown or not meaningful for this node."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 41 }

appnLsLocalAddr OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (0..64))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Local address, represented as a DisplayString.  A zero-length
          string indicates that this value is unknown or not applicable."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 42 }


appnLsRemoteAddr OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (0..64))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Remote address, represented as a DisplayString.  A zero-length



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 37]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


          string indicates that this value is unknown or not applicable."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 43 }

appnLsRemoteLsName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (0..10))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Remote link station discovered from the XID exchange.
          The name can be from one to ten characters.  A zero-length
          string indicates that the value is not known."

      ::= { appnLsEntry 44 }



--********************************************************************
-- This table provides information about errors this node encountered
-- with connections to adjacent nodes.  This includes all exceptional
-- conditions encountered establishing connections and all exceptional
-- conditions that resulted in termination of a connection.  It is an
-- implementation option how many entries to keep in this table, and
-- how long to retain any individual entry.
--********************************************************************

appnLsStatusTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF AppnLsStatusEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This table contains information related to exceptional and
          potentially exceptional conditions that occured during the
          activation, XID exchange, and termination of the connection."

      ::= { appnLinkStationInformation 2 }

appnLsStatusEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX AppnLsStatusEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This table is indexed by the LsStatusIndex, which is an
          integer that is continuously updated until it eventually wraps.
          This provides a Management Station with the ability to retrieve
          only the updates to the table, by using the standard GET NEXT."



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 38]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      INDEX
             { appnLsStatusIndex }

      ::= { appnLsStatusTable 1 }

AppnLsStatusEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
      appnLsStatusIndex              INTEGER,
      appnLsStatusTime               DateAndTime,
      appnLsStatusLsName             DisplayString,
      appnLsStatusCpName             DisplayString,
      appnLsStatusPartnerId          DisplayString,
      appnLsStatusTgNum              INTEGER,
      appnLsStatusGeneralSense       SnaSenseData,
      appnLsStatusRetry              INTEGER,
      appnLsStatusEndSense           SnaSenseData,
      appnLsStatusXidLocalSense      SnaSenseData,
      appnLsStatusXidRemoteSense     SnaSenseData,
      appnLsStatusXidByteInError     INTEGER,
      appnLsStatusXidBitInError      INTEGER,
      appnLsStatusDlcType            IANAifType,
      appnLsStatusLocalAddr          DisplayString,
      appnLsStatusRemoteAddr         DisplayString
                     }


appnLsStatusIndex OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..2147483647)
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Table index.  The value of the index begins at zero
           and is incremented up to a maximum value of 2**31-1
           (2,147,483,647) before wrapping."

      ::= { appnLsStatusEntry 1 }

appnLsStatusTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DateAndTime
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Time when the exception condition occurred.  This time can be
          used to identify when this event occurred in relation to other
          events in the agent, such as the last time the APPN node was
          re-initialized."




Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 39]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      ::= { appnLsStatusEntry 2 }

appnLsStatusLsName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (1..10))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned name for the link station
          experiencing the condition."

      ::= { appnLsStatusEntry 3 }

appnLsStatusCpName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (0 | 3..17))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Fully qualified name of the adjacent node for this link
          station.  The name can be from three to seventeen characters.
          Format is NetId.CpName.

          The value of this object is determined as follows:

             1. If the adjacent node's name was received on XID, it
                is returned.

             2. If the adjacent node's name was not received on XID,
                but a locally-defined value is available, it is
                returned.

             3. Otherwise a string of length 0 is returned, indicating
                that no name is known for the adjacent node."

      ::= { appnLsStatusEntry 4 }

appnLsStatusPartnerId OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString  (SIZE (8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The partner's node_id consists of two parts:

            Block number of the partner node:  The block number is the
            first three digits of the node_id.  These 3 hexadecimal
            digits identify the product. The value is '000' when the
            partner node_id is not defined.



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 40]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


            ID number of the partner node:  The ID number is the last
            5 digits of the node_id.  These 5 hexadecimal digits are
            administratively defined and combined with the 3-digit
            block number form the node_id.  This node_id is used to
            identify the node in XIDs.  A unique value is required for
            connections to SNA subarea.  The value is '00000' when the
            partner node_id is not defined."

      ::= { appnLsStatusEntry 5 }

appnLsStatusTgNum OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..256)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number associated with the TG to this link station, with a
          range from 0 to 256.  A value of 256 indicates that the TG
          number was unknown at the time of the failure."

      ::= { appnLsStatusEntry 6 }

appnLsStatusGeneralSense OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SnaSenseData
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The error sense data associated with the start sequence of
          activation of a link up to the beginning of the XID sequence.

          This is the sense data that came from CS whenever the link
          did not activate or when it went inactive."

      ::= { appnLsStatusEntry 7 }

appnLsStatusRetry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER    {
                          retry(1),
                          noRetry(2)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the node will retry the start request to
          activate the link."

      ::= { appnLsStatusEntry 8 }



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 41]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


appnLsStatusEndSense OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SnaSenseData
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The sense data associated with the termination of the link
          connection to adjacent node.

          This is the sense data that came from the DLC layer."

      ::= { appnLsStatusEntry 9 }

appnLsStatusXidLocalSense OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SnaSenseData
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The sense data associated with the rejection of the XID.

          This is the sense data that came from the local node (this
          node) when it built the CV22 to send to the remote node."

      ::= { appnLsStatusEntry 10 }

appnLsStatusXidRemoteSense OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SnaSenseData
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The sense data the adjacent node returned to this node
          indicating the reason the XID was rejected.

          This is the sense data that came from the remote node in
          the CV22 it sent to the local node (this node)."

      ::= { appnLsStatusEntry 11 }

appnLsStatusXidByteInError OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..65536)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This object identifies the actual byte in the XID that caused
          the error.  The value 65536 indicates that the object has no
          meaning.




Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 42]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


          For values in the range 0-65535, this object corresponds to
          bytes 2-3 of the XID Negotiation (X'22') control vector."

      ::= { appnLsStatusEntry 12 }

appnLsStatusXidBitInError OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..8)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This object identifies the actual bit in error (0 through 7)
          within the errored byte of the XID.  The value 8 indicates that
          this object has no meaning.

          For values in the range 0-7, this object corresponds to byte 4
          of the XID Negotiation (X'22') control vector."

      ::= { appnLsStatusEntry 13 }

appnLsStatusDlcType OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX IANAifType
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The type of DLC interface, distinguished according to the
          protocol immediately 'below' this layer."

      ::= { appnLsStatusEntry 14 }

appnLsStatusLocalAddr OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (0..64))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Local address, represented as a DisplayString."

      ::= { appnLsStatusEntry 15 }

appnLsStatusRemoteAddr OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (0..64))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Remote address, represented as a DisplayString."

      ::= { appnLsStatusEntry 16 }



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 43]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


-- *********************************************************************
-- APPN Virtual Routing Node Information
--

appnVrnTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF AppnVrnEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This table relates a virtual routing node to an APPN port."

      ::= { appnVrnInfo 1 }

appnVrnEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX AppnVrnEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This table is indexed by the virtual routing node name, TG
          number, and port name.  There will be a matching entry in the
          appnLocalTgTable to represent status and characteristics of the
          TG representing each virtual routing node definition."

      INDEX
             { appnVrnName, appnVrnTgNum, appnVrnPortName }

      ::= { appnVrnTable 1 }

AppnVrnEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
      appnVrnName             DisplayString,
      appnVrnTgNum            INTEGER,
      appnVrnPortName         DisplayString
}

appnVrnName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (3..17))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned name of the virtual routing node.
          This is a fully qualified name, and matches the appnLocalTgDest
          name in the appnLocalTgTable."

      ::= { appnVrnEntry 1 }

appnVrnTgNum OBJECT-TYPE



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 44]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      SYNTAX INTEGER(0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number associated with the transmission group representing
          this virtual routing node definition."

      ::= { appnVrnEntry 2 }

appnVrnPortName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (1..10))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The name of the port this virtual routing node definition is
          defined to."

      ::= { appnVrnEntry 3 }



-- ************** The APPN Topology Group ******************************

appnNn                OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnObjects 2 }
appnNnTopo         OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnNn 1 }
appnNnTopology     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnNn 2 }

-- This group is used to represent the entire APPN network-node topology
-- including network nodes, virtual routing nodes and all TGs associated
-- with these nodes.
--
-- Network nodes
-- The APPN topology database consists of information about every APPN
-- network node in this network node's topology subnetwork.  This
-- information is learned over time as each network node exchanges
-- topology information with the network nodes adjacent to it.  The
-- database consists of information about each node, and information
-- about all of the transmission groups used by these nodes.
--
-- Virtual routing nodes
-- Information about virtual routing nodes (representing connection
-- networks) is treated in the same way as information about network
-- nodes, and is replicated at each network node.  For a virtual routing
-- node, the node name is the only meaningful information. The other
-- node objects use default values.  Each node that has defined
-- a TG with this virtual routing node as the destination also defines a



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 45]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


-- TG on this virtual routing node.  There is a TG record for each node
-- that uses this virtual routing node.
--
-- The APPN node table represents node information from the APPN topology
-- database, with the Flow Reduction Sequence Number (FRSN) and APPN CP
-- fully qualified name serving as the index.  The FRSN is the agent's
-- relative time stamp of an update to the network topology database.
-- After collecting the entire database once, a management application
-- can montior the 'appnNnFrsn' objects to detect a change in the
-- database, and retrieve only updates using GET NEXT commands
-- starting from the last retrieved node and TG entries.
--
-- The format of the actual APPN topology database is as follows:
--
-- Node table (entry for each node in network)
--   TG table (entry for each TG owned by node)
--
-- Due to SNMP's ASN.1 limitations, we cannot represent the TG table
-- within the node table in this way.  We define separate tables for
-- nodes and TGs, adding the node name to each TG entry to provide a
-- means of correlating the TG with its originating node.

appnNnTopoMaxNodes OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Maximum number of node entries allowed in the APPN topology
          database.  It is an implementation choice whether to count only
          network-node entries, or to count all node entries.  If the
          number of node entries exceeds this value, APPN will issue an
          Alert and the node can no longer participate as a network node.
          The value 0 indicates that the local node has no defined limit,
          and the number of node entries is bounded only by memory."

      ::= { appnNnTopo 1 }

appnNnTopoCurNumNodes OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Current number of node entries in this node's topology
          database.  It is an implementation choice whether to count only
          network-node entries, or to count all node entries.  If this
          value exceeds the maximum number of nodes allowed



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 46]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


          (appnNnTopoMaxNodes, if that field in not 0), APPN Alert
          CPDB002 is issued."

      ::= { appnNnTopo 2 }

appnNnTopoNodePurges OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Total number of topology node records purged from this node's
          topology database since the node was last re-initialized."

      ::= { appnNnTopo 3 }

appnNnTopoTgPurges OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Total number of topology TG records purged from this node's
          topology database since the node was last re-initialized."

      ::= { appnNnTopo 4 }

appnNnTopoTotalTduWars OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of TDU wars detected by this node since its last
          initialization."

      ::= { appnNnTopo 5 }



-- APPN network node topology table (using FRSN as index)

-- This table describes every APPN network node and virtual routing node
-- represented in this node's topology database.

appnNnTopologyFRTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF AppnNnTopologyFREntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 47]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      DESCRIPTION
          "Portion of the APPN topology database that describes all of
          the APPN network nodes and virtual routing nodes known to this
          node."

      ::= { appnNnTopology 3 }

appnNnTopologyFREntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX AppnNnTopologyFREntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The FRSN and the fully qualified node name are used to index
          this table."

      INDEX
             {appnNnNodeFRFrsn,
              appnNnNodeFRName}

      ::= { appnNnTopologyFRTable 1 }

AppnNnTopologyFREntry ::= SEQUENCE {
      appnNnNodeFRFrsn                     Integer32,
      appnNnNodeFRName                     DisplayString,
      appnNnNodeFREntryTimeLeft            INTEGER,
      appnNnNodeFRType                     INTEGER,

      appnNnNodeFRRsn                      Integer32,
      appnNnNodeFRRouteAddResist           INTEGER,
      appnNnNodeFRCongested                INTEGER,
      appnNnNodeFRIsrDepleted              INTEGER,
      appnNnNodeFRQuiescing                INTEGER,
      appnNnNodeFRGateway                  INTEGER,
      appnNnNodeFRCentralDirectory         INTEGER,
      appnNnNodeFRIsr                      INTEGER,
      appnNnNodeFRGarbageCollect           INTEGER,

      appnNnNodeFRHprSupport               INTEGER,
      appnNnNodeFRPeriBorderSup            INTEGER,
      appnNnNodeFRInterchangeSup           INTEGER,
      appnNnNodeFRExteBorderSup            INTEGER
}

appnNnNodeFRFrsn OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 48]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Flow reduction sequence numbers (FRSNs) are associated with
          Topology Database Updates (TDUs) and are unique only within
          each APPN network node.  A TDU can be associated with multiple
          APPN resources.  This FRSN indicates the last relative time
          this resource was updated at the agent node."

      ::= { appnNnTopologyFREntry 1 }

appnNnNodeFRName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (3..17))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned network name that is locally defined
          at each network node in the format NetId.CpName."

      ::= { appnNnTopologyFREntry 2 }

appnNnNodeFREntryTimeLeft OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..15)
      UNITS "days"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of days before deletion of this network node entry.
          Range is 0-15.  0 indicates this entry will be deleted in
          this or the next garbage collection cycle."

      ::= { appnNnTopologyFREntry 3 }

appnNnNodeFRType OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     networkNode(1),
                     virtualRoutingNode(3)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Type of APPN node."

      ::= { appnNnTopologyFREntry 4 }

appnNnNodeFRRsn OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 49]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Resource sequence number, which is assigned and controlled by
          the network node that owns this resource.  An odd number
          indicates that information about the resource is inconsistent.

          This object corresponds to cv4580, bytes 2-5."

      ::= { appnNnTopologyFREntry 5 }

appnNnNodeFRRouteAddResist OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Route addition resistance.

          This administratively assigned value indicates the relative
          desirability of using this node for intermediate session
          traffic.  The value, which can be any integer 0-255, is used
          in route computation.  The lower the value, the more
          desirable the node is for intermediate routing.

          This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 6."

      ::= { appnNnTopologyFREntry 6 }

appnNnNodeFRCongested OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether this node is congested.
           This node is not be included in route selection
           by other nodes when this congestion exists.

           This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 7, bit 0."

      ::= { appnNnTopologyFREntry 7 }

appnNnNodeFRIsrDepleted OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 50]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


          "Indicates whether intermediate session
           routing resources are depleted.  This node is
           not included in intermediate route selection
           by other nodes when resources are depleted.

           This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 7, bit 1."

      ::= { appnNnTopologyFREntry 8 }

appnNnNodeFRQuiescing OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the node is quiescing.
           This node is not included in route selection
           by other nodes when the node is quiescing.

           This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 7, bit 5."

      ::= { appnNnTopologyFREntry 9 }

appnNnNodeFRGateway OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the node provide gateway services.

          This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 8, bit 0."


      ::= { appnNnTopologyFREntry 10 }

appnNnNodeFRCentralDirectory OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the node supports central directory
          services.

          This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 8, bit 1."


      ::= { appnNnTopologyFREntry 11 }



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 51]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


appnNnNodeFRIsr OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the node supports intermediate session
          routing (ISR).

          This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 8, bit 2."

      ::= { appnNnTopologyFREntry 12 }

appnNnNodeFRGarbageCollect OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the node has been marked for garbage
          collection (deletion from the topology database) upon the next
          garbage collection cycle.

          This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 7, bit 3."

      ::= { appnNnTopologyFREntry 13 }

appnNnNodeFRHprSupport OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                 noHprSupport(1),
                 hprBaseOnly(2),
                 rtpTower(3),
                 controlFlowsOverRtpTower(4)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates this node's level of support for high performance
          routing (HPR).

          This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 9, bits 3-4."

      ::= { appnNnTopologyFREntry 14 }

appnNnNodeFRPeriBorderSup OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 52]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether this node has peripheral
           border node support.

           This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 9, bit 0."

      ::= { appnNnTopologyFREntry 15 }

appnNnNodeFRInterchangeSup OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether this node has interchange node support.

           This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 9, bit 1."

      ::= { appnNnTopologyFREntry 16 }

appnNnNodeFRExteBorderSup OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether this node has extended border node
           support.

           This object corresponds to cv4580, byte 9, bit 2."

      ::= { appnNnTopologyFREntry 17 }


--APPN transmission group (TG) table

-- This table describes the TGs associated with all the APPN network
-- nodes known to this node.   The originating (owning) node for each
-- TG is repeated here to provide a means of correlating the TGs with
-- the nodes.


appnNnTgTopologyFRTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF AppnNnTgTopologyFREntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Portion of the APPN topology database that describes all of



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 53]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


          the APPN transmissions groups between nodes in the database."

      ::= { appnNnTopology 4 }

appnNnTgTopologyFREntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX AppnNnTgTopologyFREntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This table is indexed by four columns:  FRSN, TG owner fully
          qualified node name, TG destination fully qualified node name,
          and TG number."

      INDEX
             {appnNnTgFRFrsn,
              appnNnTgFROwner,
              appnNnTgFRDest,
              appnNnTgFRNum}

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFRTable 1 }

AppnNnTgTopologyFREntry ::= SEQUENCE {

      appnNnTgFRFrsn           Integer32,
      appnNnTgFROwner          DisplayString,
      appnNnTgFRDest           DisplayString,
      appnNnTgFRNum            INTEGER,
      appnNnTgFREntryTimeLeft  INTEGER,

      appnNnTgFRDestVirtual    INTEGER,
      appnNnTgFRDlcData        OCTET STRING,

      appnNnTgFRRsn            Integer32,
      appnNnTgFROperational    INTEGER,
      appnNnTgFRQuiescing      INTEGER,
      appnNnTgFRCpCpSession    INTEGER,
      appnNnTgFREffCap         OCTET STRING,
      appnNnTgFRConnCost       INTEGER,
      appnNnTgFRByteCost       INTEGER,
      appnNnTgFRSecurity       INTEGER,
      appnNnTgFRDelay          OCTET STRING,
      appnNnTgFRUsr1           INTEGER,
      appnNnTgFRUsr2           INTEGER,
      appnNnTgFRUsr3           INTEGER,
      appnNnTgFRGarbageCollect INTEGER,
      appnNnTgFRSubareaNum     Integer32,



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 54]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      appnNnTgFRHprSup         INTEGER,
      appnNnTgFRDestHprTrans   INTEGER,
      appnNnTgFRTypeIndicator  INTEGER,
      appnNnTgFRIntersubnet    INTEGER
}


appnNnTgFRFrsn OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Flow reduction sequence numbers (FRSNs) are associated with
          Topology Database Updates (TDUs) and are unique only within
          each APPN network node.  A TDU can be associated with multiple
          APPN resources.  This FRSN indicates the last time this
          resource was updated at this node."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 1 }

appnNnTgFROwner OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (3..17))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned name for the originating node for
          this TG.  The format is NetId.CpName and is the same name
          specified in the node table."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 2 }

appnNnTgFRDest OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (3..17))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned fully qualified network name for the
          destination node for this TG."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 3 }

appnNnTgFRNum OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER  (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 55]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


          "Number associated with this transmission group.  Range is
          0-255."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 4 }

appnNnTgFREntryTimeLeft OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..15)
      UNITS "days"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of days before deletion of this network node TG entry
          if it is not operational or has an odd (inconsistent) RSN.
          Range is 0-15."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 5 }

appnNnTgFRDestVirtual OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the destination node is a virtual routing
          node."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 6 }

appnNnTgFRDlcData OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING  (SIZE (0..64))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "DLC specific data related to the link connection network.
          Examples:

           Token-Ring      - MAC/SAP
           X.25 Switched   - dial digits
           X.21 Switched   - dial digits
           Circuit Switch  - dial digits"

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 7 }

appnNnTgFRRsn OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 56]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      DESCRIPTION
          "Current owning node's resource sequence number for this
          resource.  An odd number indicates that information about the
          resource is inconsistent.

          This object corresponds to cv47, bytes 2-5"

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 8 }

appnNnTgFROperational OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the transmission group is operational.

          This object corresponds to cv47, byte 6, bit 0."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 9 }

appnNnTgFRQuiescing OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the transmission group is quiescing.

          This object corresponds to cv47, byte 6, bit 2."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 10 }

appnNnTgFRCpCpSession OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     supportedUnknownStatus(1),
                     supportedActive(2),
                     notSupported(3),
                     supportedNotActive(4)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether CP-CP sessions are supported and active on
          this TG.  Some nodes in the network are not able to
          differentiate support and status of CP-CP sessions, and thus
          may report the 'supportedUnknownStatus' value.




Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 57]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


          This object corresponds to cv47, byte 6, bits 3-4."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 11 }


appnNnTgFREffCap OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Effective capacity for this TG.

          This is an administratively assigned value derived from the
          link bandwidth and maximum load factor.  It is encoded in the
          same way as byte 7 of cv47, and represents a floating-point
          number in units of 300 bits per second."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 12 }

appnNnTgFRConnCost OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Cost per connect time.

          This is an administratively assigned value representing the
          relative cost per unit of time to use this TG.  Range is from
          0, which means no cost, to 255, which indicates maximum cost.

          This object corresponds to cv47, byte 13."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 13 }

appnNnTgFRByteCost OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Cost per connect time.

          This is an administratively assigned value representing the
          relative cost of transmitting a byte over this TG.  Range is
          from 0, which means no cost, to 255, which indicates maximum
          cost.




Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 58]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


          This object corresponds to cv47, byte 14."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 14 }

appnNnTgFRSecurity OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     nonsecure(1),               -- X'01'
                     publicSwitchedNetwork(32),  -- X'20'
                     undergroundCable(64),       -- X'40'
                     secureConduit(96),          -- X'60'
                     guardedConduit(128),        -- X'80'
                     encrypted(160),             -- X'A0'
                     guardedRadiation(192)       -- X'C0'
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned security level of this TG.

          If a network needs security values other than the
          architecturally defined ones listed here, one of the three
          user-defined characteristics may be used to specify the
          required additional security values.

          This object corresponds to cv47, byte 16."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 15 }

appnNnTgFRDelay OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Relative amount of time that it takes for a signal to travel
          the length of the logical link.  This time is represented in
          microseconds, using the same encoding scheme used in cv47 in a
          topology update.  Some of the more common values, along with
          their encoded hex values, are:

                     minimum(0),                 X'00'
                     negligible(384),            X'4C'
                     terrestrial(9216),          X'71'
                     packet(147456),             X'91'
                     long(294912),               X'99'
                     maximum(2013265920)         X'FF'




Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 59]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


          This is an administratively assigned value associated with this
          TG.

          This object corresponds to cv47, byte 17."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 16 }

appnNnTgFRUsr1 OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "First user-defined TG characteristic for this TG.  This is
          an administratively assigned value associated with the TG.

          This object corresponds to cv47, byte 19."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 17 }

appnNnTgFRUsr2 OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Second user-defined TG characteristic for this TG.  This is
          an administratively assigned value associated with the TG.

          This object corresponds to cv47, byte 20."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 18 }

appnNnTgFRUsr3 OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Third user-defined TG characteristic for this TG.  This is
          an administratively assigned value associated with the TG.

          This object corresponds to cv47, byte 21."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 19 }

appnNnTgFRGarbageCollect OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 60]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the TG has been marked for garbage
          collection (deletion from the topology database) upon the next
          garbage collection cycle.

          This object corresponds to cv47, byte 6, bit 1."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 20 }

appnNnTgFRSubareaNum OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The subarea number associated with this TG.

          This object corresponds to cv4680, bytes m+2 through m+5."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 21 }

appnNnTgFRHprSup OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether or not high performance routing (HPR)
          is supported over this TG.

          This object corresponds to cv4680, byte m+1, bit 2."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 22 }

appnNnTgFRDestHprTrans OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the destination node supports
          high performance routing (HPR) transport tower.

          This object corresponds to cv4680, byte m+1, bit 7."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 23 }

appnNnTgFRTypeIndicator OBJECT-TYPE



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 61]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                      unknown(1),
                      appnOrBfTg(2),
                      interchangeTg(3),
                      virtualRouteTg(4)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates the type of the TG.

          This object corresponds to cv4680, byte m+1, bits 3-4."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 24 }

appnNnTgFRIntersubnet OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the transmission group is an intersubnet
          link, which defines a border between subnetworks.

          This object corresponds to cv4680, byte m+1, bit 5."

      ::= { appnNnTgTopologyFREntry 25 }

-- ************** The APPN Local Topology Group ************************
-- This MIB Group represents the local topology maintained in
-- both APPN end nodes and network nodes.  It consists of two
-- tables:
--    - a table containing information about all of the TGs owned
--      by this node, which is implemented by all node types.
--    - a table containing all of the information known to this node
--      about the TGs owned by its end nodes, which is implemented only
--      by network nodes.

appnLocalTopology     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnObjects 3 }

-- APPN Local Transmission Group (TG) table
-- This table describes the TGs associated with this node only.

appnLocalTgTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF AppnLocalTgEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 62]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      DESCRIPTION
          "TG Table describes all of the TGs owned by this node.  The TG
          destination can be a virtual node, network node, LEN node, or
          end node."

      ::= { appnLocalTopology 1 }

appnLocalTgEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX AppnLocalTgEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This table is indexed by the destination CPname and the TG
          number."

      INDEX
             {appnLocalTgDest,
              appnLocalTgNum}

      ::= { appnLocalTgTable 1 }

AppnLocalTgEntry ::= SEQUENCE {

      appnLocalTgDest         DisplayString,
      appnLocalTgNum          INTEGER,
      appnLocalTgDestVirtual  INTEGER,
      appnLocalTgDlcData      OCTET STRING,
      appnLocalTgPortName     DisplayString,

      appnLocalTgQuiescing    INTEGER,
      appnLocalTgOperational  INTEGER,
      appnLocalTgCpCpSession  INTEGER,
      appnLocalTgEffCap       OCTET STRING,
      appnLocalTgConnCost     INTEGER,
      appnLocalTgByteCost     INTEGER,
      appnLocalTgSecurity     INTEGER,
      appnLocalTgDelay        OCTET STRING,
      appnLocalTgUsr1         INTEGER,
      appnLocalTgUsr2         INTEGER,
      appnLocalTgUsr3         INTEGER,

      appnLocalTgHprSup       INTEGER,
      appnLocalTgDestHprTrans INTEGER,
      appnLocalTgIntersubnet  INTEGER
                     }




Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 63]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


appnLocalTgDest OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (3..17))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned name of the destination node for
          this TG.  This is the fully qualified name of a network node,
          end node, LEN node, or virtual routing node."

      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 1 }

appnLocalTgNum OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number associated with this transmission group."

      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 2 }

appnLocalTgDestVirtual OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the destination node for this TG is a
          virtual routing node."

      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 3 }

appnLocalTgDlcData OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING  (SIZE (0..64))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "DLC-specific data related to the link connection network.
          Examples:

           Token-Ring      - MAC/SAP
           X.25 Switched   - dial digits
           X.21 Switched   - dial digits
           Circuit Switch  - dial digits"

      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 4 }

appnLocalTgPortName OBJECT-TYPE



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 64]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (0..10))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned name for the local port associated
          with this TG.  A zero-length string indicates that this value
          is unknown."

      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 5 }

appnLocalTgQuiescing OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the transmission group is quiescing."

      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 6 }

appnLocalTgOperational OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the transmission group is operational."

      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 7 }

appnLocalTgCpCpSession OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     supportedUnknownStatus(1),
                     supportedActive(2),
                     notSupported(3),
                     supportedNotActive(4)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether CP-CP sessions are supported and active on
          this TG.  Some nodes in the network are not able to
          differentiate support and status of CP-CP sessions, and thus
          may report the 'supportedUnknownStatus' value."

      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 8 }

appnLocalTgEffCap OBJECT-TYPE



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 65]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Effective capacity for this TG.

          This is an administratively assigned value derived from the
          link bandwidth and maximum load factor.  It is encoded in the
          same way as byte 7 of cv47, and represents a floating-point
          number in units of 300 bits per second."

      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 9 }

appnLocalTgConnCost OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Cost per connect time:  a value representing the relative cost
          per unit of time to use the TG.  Range is from 0, which means
          no cost, to 255."

      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 10 }

appnLocalTgByteCost OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Relative cost of transmitting a byte over this link.
          Range is from 0 (lowest cost) to 255."

      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 11 }

appnLocalTgSecurity OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     nonsecure(1),               -- X'01'
                     publicSwitchedNetwork(32),  -- X'20'
                     undergroundCable(64),       -- X'40'
                     secureConduit(96),          -- X'60'
                     guardedConduit(128),        -- X'80'
                     encrypted(160),             -- X'A0'
                     guardedRadiation(192)       -- X'C0'
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 66]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned security level of this TG.

          If a network needs security values other than the
          architecturally defined ones listed here, one of the three
          user-defined characteristics may be used to specify the
          required additional security values."

      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 12 }

appnLocalTgDelay OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Relative amount of time that it takes for a signal to travel
          the length of the logical link.  This time is represented in
          microseconds, using the same encoding scheme used in cv47 in a
          topology update.  Some of the more common values, along with
          their encoded hex values, are:

                     minimum(0),                 X'00'
                     negligible(384),            X'4C'
                     terrestrial(9216),          X'71'
                     packet(147456),             X'91'
                     long(294912),               X'99'
                     maximum(2013265920)         X'FF'

          This is an administratively assigned value associated with this
          TG.

          This object corresponds to cv47, byte 17."

      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 13 }

appnLocalTgUsr1 OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "First user-defined TG characteristic for this TG.  This is
          an administratively assigned value associated with the TG."

      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 14 }

appnLocalTgUsr2 OBJECT-TYPE



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 67]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Second user-defined TG characteristic for this TG.  This is
          an administratively assigned value associated with the TG."

      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 15 }

appnLocalTgUsr3 OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Third user-defined TG characteristic for this TG.  This is
          an administratively assigned value associated with the TG."

      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 16 }

appnLocalTgHprSup OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether or not high performance routing (HPR) is
          supported over this TG ."

      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 17 }

appnLocalTgDestHprTrans OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER { yes(1), no(2) }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the destination node supports the
           high performance routing (HPR) transport tower."

      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 18 }

appnLocalTgIntersubnet OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the transmission group is an
           intersubnet link (defines a border between subnetworks)."



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 68]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      ::= { appnLocalTgEntry 19 }


-- APPN Local End Node Transmission Group (TG) table
-- This table describes the TGs associated with all of the end nodes
-- known to this node.

appnLocalEnTgTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF AppnLocalEnTgEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Table describing all of the TGs owned by the end nodes known
          to this node via TG registration.  This node does not represent
          its own view of the TG on behalf of the partner node in this
          table.  The TG destination can be a virtual routing node,
          network node, or end node."

      ::= { appnLocalTopology 2 }

appnLocalEnTgEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX AppnLocalEnTgEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This table requires multiple indexes to uniquely identify each
          TG.  They are originating CPname, destination CPname, and the
          TG number."

      INDEX
             {appnLocalEnTgOrigin,
              appnLocalEnTgDest,
              appnLocalEnTgNum}

      ::= { appnLocalEnTgTable 1 }

AppnLocalEnTgEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
      appnLocalEnTgOrigin        DisplayString,
      appnLocalEnTgDest          DisplayString,
      appnLocalEnTgNum           INTEGER,
      appnLocalEnTgEntryTimeLeft INTEGER,

      appnLocalEnTgDestVirtual   INTEGER,
      appnLocalEnTgDlcData       OCTET STRING,

      appnLocalEnTgOperational   INTEGER,



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 69]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      appnLocalEnTgCpCpSession   INTEGER,
      appnLocalEnTgEffCap        OCTET STRING,
      appnLocalEnTgConnCost      INTEGER,
      appnLocalEnTgByteCost      INTEGER,
      appnLocalEnTgSecurity      INTEGER,
      appnLocalEnTgDelay         OCTET STRING,
      appnLocalEnTgUsr1          INTEGER,
      appnLocalEnTgUsr2          INTEGER,
      appnLocalEnTgUsr3          INTEGER
                     }

appnLocalEnTgOrigin OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (3..17))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned name of the origin node for this
          TG.  This is a fully qualified network name."

      ::= { appnLocalEnTgEntry 1 }

appnLocalEnTgDest OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (3..17))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned name of the destination node for
          this TG.  This is the fully qualified name of a network node,
          end node, LEN node, or virtual routing node."

      ::= { appnLocalEnTgEntry 2 }

appnLocalEnTgNum OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number associated with this transmission group."

      ::= { appnLocalEnTgEntry 3 }

appnLocalEnTgEntryTimeLeft OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..15)
      UNITS "days"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 70]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of days before deletion of this end node TG entry.
          Range is 0-15."

      ::= { appnLocalEnTgEntry 4 }

appnLocalEnTgDestVirtual OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the destination node is a virtual routing
          node."

      ::= { appnLocalEnTgEntry 5 }

appnLocalEnTgDlcData OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING  (SIZE (0..64))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "DLC-specific data related to the link connection network.
          Examples:

           Token-Ring      - MAC/SAP
           X.25 Switched   - dial digits
           X.21 Switched   - dial digits
           Circuit Switch  - dial digits"

      ::= { appnLocalEnTgEntry 6 }

appnLocalEnTgOperational OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether the transmission group is operational."

      ::= { appnLocalEnTgEntry 7 }

appnLocalEnTgCpCpSession OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     supportedUnknownStatus(1),
                     supportedActive(2),
                     notSupported(3),
                     supportedNotActive(4)



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 71]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether CP-CP sessions are supported and active on
          this TG.  Some nodes in the network are not able to
          differentiate support and status of CP-CP sessions, and thus
          may report the 'supportedUnknownStatus' value."

      ::= { appnLocalEnTgEntry 8 }

appnLocalEnTgEffCap OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Effective capacity for this TG.

          This is an administratively assigned value derived from the
          link bandwidth and maximum load factor.  It is encoded in the
          same way as byte 7 of cv47, and represents a floating-point
          number in units of 300 bits per second."

      ::= { appnLocalEnTgEntry 9 }

appnLocalEnTgConnCost OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Cost per connect time:  a value representing the relative cost
          per unit of time to use the TG.  Range is from 0, which means
          no cost, to 255."

      ::= { appnLocalEnTgEntry 10 }

appnLocalEnTgByteCost OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Relative cost of transmitting a byte over this link.
          Range is from 0, which means no cost, to 255."

      ::= { appnLocalEnTgEntry 11 }




Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 72]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


appnLocalEnTgSecurity OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     nonsecure(1),               -- X'01'
                     publicSwitchedNetwork(32),  -- X'20'
                     undergroundCable(64),       -- X'40'
                     secureConduit(96),          -- X'60'
                     guardedConduit(128),        -- X'80'
                     encrypted(160),             -- X'A0'
                     guardedRadiation(192)       -- X'C0'
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned security level of this TG.

          If a network needs security values other than the
          architecturally defined ones listed here, one of the three
          user-defined characteristics may be used to specify the
          required additional security values."

      ::= { appnLocalEnTgEntry 12 }

appnLocalEnTgDelay OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Relative amount of time that it takes for a signal to travel
          the length of the logical link.  This time is represented in
          microseconds, using the same encoding scheme used in cv47 in a
          topology update.  Some of the more common values, along with
          their encoded hex values, are:

                     minimum(0),                 X'00'
                     negligible(384),            X'4C'
                     terrestrial(9216),          X'71'
                     packet(147456),             X'91'
                     long(294912),               X'99'
                     maximum(2013265920)         X'FF'

            This is an administratively assigned value associated
            with this TG.

            This object corresponds to cv47, byte 17."

      ::= { appnLocalEnTgEntry 13 }



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 73]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


appnLocalEnTgUsr1 OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "First user-defined TG characteristic for this TG.  This is
          an administratively assigned value associated with the TG."

      ::= { appnLocalEnTgEntry 14 }

appnLocalEnTgUsr2 OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Second user-defined TG characteristic for this TG.  This is
          an administratively assigned value associated with the TG."

      ::= { appnLocalEnTgEntry 15 }

appnLocalEnTgUsr3 OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Third user-defined TG characteristic for this TG.  This is
          an administratively assigned value associated with the TG."

      ::= { appnLocalEnTgEntry 16 }

-- ************** The APPN Directory Group *****************************
appnDir               OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnObjects 4 }
appnDirPerf  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnDir 1 }

-- The APPN Directory Group

-- The APPN Directory Database

-- Each APPN network node maintains directories containing information on
--  which LUs (applications) are available and where they are located.
-- LUs can be located in an APPN network node or in any of its attached
-- end nodes.

appnDirMaxCaches OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 74]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Maximum number of cache entries allowed.  This is an
          administratively assigned value."

      ::= { appnDirPerf 1 }

appnDirCurCaches OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Current number of cache entries."

      ::= { appnDirPerf 2 }

appnDirCurHomeEntries OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Current number of home entries."

      ::= { appnDirPerf 3 }

appnDirRegEntries OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Current number of registered entries."

      ::= { appnDirPerf 4 }

appnDirInLocates OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of directed Locates received since the node was last
          re-initialized."

      ::= { appnDirPerf 5 }

appnDirInBcastLocates OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 75]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of broadcast Locates received since the node was last
          re-initialized."

      ::= { appnDirPerf 6 }

appnDirOutLocates OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of directed Locates sent since the node was last
          re-initialized."

      ::= { appnDirPerf 7 }

appnDirOutBcastLocates OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of broadcast Locates sent since the node was last
          re-initialized."

      ::= { appnDirPerf 8 }

appnDirNotFoundLocates OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of directed Locates returned with a 'not found' since
          the node was last re-initialized."

      ::= { appnDirPerf 9 }

appnDirNotFoundBcastLocates OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of broadcast Locates returned with a 'not found' since
          the node was last re-initialized."




Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 76]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      ::= { appnDirPerf 10 }

appnDirLocateOutstands OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Current number of outstanding Locates, both directed and
          broadcast.  This value varies.  A value of zero indicates
          that no Locates are unanswered."

      ::= { appnDirPerf 11 }


--APPN Directory table

-- This table contains information about all known LUs.

appnDirTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF AppnDirEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Table containing information about all known LUs."

      ::= { appnDir 2 }

appnDirEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX AppnDirEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This table is indexed by the LU name."

      INDEX
             {appnDirLuName}

      ::= { appnDirTable 1 }

AppnDirEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
      appnDirLuName                   DisplayString,
      appnDirNnServerName             DisplayString,
      appnDirLuOwnerName              DisplayString,
      appnDirLuLocation               INTEGER,
      appnDirType                     INTEGER
                     }



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 77]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


appnDirLuName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString  (SIZE (1..17))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Fully qualified network LU name in the domain of the
           serving network node.  Entries take one of three forms:

              - Explicit entries do not contain the character '*'.
              - Partial wildcard entries have the form 'ccc*', where
                'c' represents a character in a legal SNA LuName.
              - A full wildcard entry consists of the single
                character '*"

      ::= { appnDirEntry 1 }

appnDirNnServerName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (0..17))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Fully qualified control point (CP) name of the network node
          server.  For unassociated end node entries, a string of length
          0 is returned."

      ::= { appnDirEntry 2 }

appnDirLuOwnerName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (3..17))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Fully qualified CP name of the node at which the LU is
          located.  This name is the same as the serving NN name when
          the LU is located at a network node.  It is also the same as
          the fully qualified LU name when this is the control point
          LU for this node."

      ::= { appnDirEntry 3 }

appnDirLuLocation OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     local(1),     --Local
                     domain(2),    --Domain
                     xdomain(3)    --Cross Domain
                     }



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 78]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Specifies the location of the LU with respect to the local
          node."

      ::= { appnDirEntry 4 }

appnDirType OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     home(1),      --defined as home entry
                     cache(2),     --learned over time
                     registered(3) --registered by end node
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Directory types are:
            1 - Home
                  The LU is in the domain of the local node, and the LU
                  information has been configured at the local node.

            2 - Cache
                  The LU has previously been located by a broadcast
                  search, and the location information has been saved.

            3 - Registered
                  The LU is at an end node that is in the domain
                  of the local network node.  Registered entries
                  are registered by the served end node."

      ::= { appnDirEntry 5 }


-- ************** The APPN Class of Service Group **********************

appnCos               OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnObjects 5 }

-- The APPN Class of Service (COS)

-- Class of Service is a means of expressing the quality of routes and
-- the transmission priority of traffic that flows on these routes.
-- The quality of routes is specified by two tables, a COS weight table
-- for TGs and a COS weight table for nodes.  Values in these COS tables
-- are administratively assigned at each APPN node, with seven default
-- tables specified by the APPN architecture.



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 79]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


-- *********************************************************************

appnCosModeTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF AppnCosModeEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Table representing all of the defined mode names for this
          node.  The table contains the matching COS name for each
          mode name."

      ::= { appnCos 1 }

appnCosModeEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX AppnCosModeEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This table is indexed by the mode name."

      INDEX
             {appnCosModeName}

      ::= { appnCosModeTable 1 }

AppnCosModeEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
      appnCosModeName                  DisplayString,
      appnCosModeCosName               DisplayString
                     }

appnCosModeName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (1..8))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned name for this mode."

      ::= { appnCosModeEntry 1 }

appnCosModeCosName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (1..8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned name for this class of service."




Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 80]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      ::= { appnCosModeEntry 2 }


-- *********************************************************************
appnCosNameTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF AppnCosNameEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Table mapping all of the defined class-of-service names for
          this node to their network transmission priorities."

      ::= { appnCos 2 }

appnCosNameEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX AppnCosNameEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The COS name is the index to this table."

      INDEX
             {appnCosName}

      ::= { appnCosNameTable 1 }

AppnCosNameEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
      appnCosName                     DisplayString,
      appnCosTransPriority            INTEGER
                     }


appnCosName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (1..8))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned name for this class of service."

      ::= { appnCosNameEntry 1 }

appnCosTransPriority OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     low(1),               --X'01'
                     medium(2),            --X'02'
                     high(3),              --X'03'



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 81]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


                     network(4)            --X'04'
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Transmission priority for this class of service."

      ::= { appnCosNameEntry 2 }


-- *********************************************************************
appnCosNodeRowTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF AppnCosNodeRowEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This table contains all node-row information for all classes
          of service defined in this node."

      ::= { appnCos 3 }

appnCosNodeRowEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX AppnCosNodeRowEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "A node entry for a given class of service."

      INDEX
             {appnCosNodeRowName,
              appnCosNodeRowIndex}

      ::= { appnCosNodeRowTable 1 }

AppnCosNodeRowEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
      appnCosNodeRowName                 DisplayString,
      appnCosNodeRowIndex                INTEGER,
      appnCosNodeRowWgt                  DisplayString,
      appnCosNodeRowResistMin            INTEGER,
      appnCosNodeRowResistMax            INTEGER,
      appnCosNodeRowMinCongestAllow      INTEGER,
      appnCosNodeRowMaxCongestAllow      INTEGER
                     }

appnCosNodeRowName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (1..8))



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 82]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned name for this class of service."

      ::= { appnCosNodeRowEntry 1 }

appnCosNodeRowIndex OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Subindex under appnCosNodeRowName, corresponding to a row in
          the node table for the class of service identified in
          appnCosNodeRowName.

          For each class of service, this subindex orders rows in the
          appnCosNodeRowTable in the same order as that used for route
          calculation in the APPN node."

      ::= { appnCosNodeRowEntry 2 }

appnCosNodeRowWgt OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (1..64))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Weight to be associated with the nodes that fit the criteria
          specified by this node row.

          This value can either be a character representation of an
          integer, or a formula for calculating the weight."

      ::= { appnCosNodeRowEntry 3 }

appnCosNodeRowResistMin OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Minimum route addition resistance value for this node.
          Range of values is 0-255.  The lower the value, the more
          desirable the node is for intermediate routing."

      ::= { appnCosNodeRowEntry 4 }




Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 83]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


appnCosNodeRowResistMax OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Maximum route addition resistance value for this node.
          Range of values is 0-255.  The lower the value, the more
          desirable the node is for intermediate routing."

      ::= { appnCosNodeRowEntry 5 }

appnCosNodeRowMinCongestAllow OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether low congestion will be tolerated.  The
          minimum and maximum parameters will allow specifying either
          low-congested, high-congested, or either to be used."

      ::= { appnCosNodeRowEntry 6 }

appnCosNodeRowMaxCongestAllow OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {yes(1), no(2)}
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether high congestion will be tolerated.  The
          minimum and maximum parameters will allow specifying either
          low-congested, high-congested, or either to be used."

      ::= { appnCosNodeRowEntry 7 }


-- *********************************************************************
appnCosTgRowTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF AppnCosTgRowEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Table containing all the TG-row information for all classes of
          service defined in this node."

      ::= { appnCos 4 }

appnCosTgRowEntry OBJECT-TYPE



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 84]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      SYNTAX AppnCosTgRowEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "A TG entry for a given class of service."

      INDEX
             {appnCosTgRowName,
              appnCosTgRowIndex}

      ::= { appnCosTgRowTable 1 }

AppnCosTgRowEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
      appnCosTgRowName                  DisplayString,
      appnCosTgRowIndex                 INTEGER,
      appnCosTgRowWgt                   DisplayString,
      appnCosTgRowEffCapMin             OCTET STRING,
      appnCosTgRowEffCapMax             OCTET STRING,
      appnCosTgRowConnCostMin           INTEGER,
      appnCosTgRowConnCostMax           INTEGER,
      appnCosTgRowByteCostMin           INTEGER,
      appnCosTgRowByteCostMax           INTEGER,
      appnCosTgRowSecurityMin           INTEGER,
      appnCosTgRowSecurityMax           INTEGER,
      appnCosTgRowDelayMin              OCTET STRING,
      appnCosTgRowDelayMax              OCTET STRING,
      appnCosTgRowUsr1Min               INTEGER,
      appnCosTgRowUsr1Max               INTEGER,
      appnCosTgRowUsr2Min               INTEGER,
      appnCosTgRowUsr2Max               INTEGER,
      appnCosTgRowUsr3Min               INTEGER,
      appnCosTgRowUsr3Max               INTEGER
                     }

appnCosTgRowName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (1..8))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Administratively assigned name for this class of service."

      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 1 }

appnCosTgRowIndex OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 85]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Subindex under appnCosTgRowName, corresponding to a row in the
          TG table for the class of service identified in
          appnCosTgRowName.

          For each class of service, this subindex orders rows in the
          appnCosTgRowTable in the same order as that used for route
          calculation in the APPN node."

      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 2 }

appnCosTgRowWgt OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (1..64))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Weight to be associated with the TGs that fit the criteria
          specified by this TG row.

          This value can either be a character representation of an
          integer, or a formula for calculating the weight."

      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 3 }

appnCosTgRowEffCapMin OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Minimum acceptable speed for this class of service.

          This value is derived from the link bandwidth and maximum load
          factor.  It is encoded in the same way as byte 7 of cv47, and
          represents a floating-point number in units of 300 bits per
          second."

      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 4 }

appnCosTgRowEffCapMax OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Maximum acceptable speed for this class of service.




Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 86]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


          This value is derived from the link bandwidth and maximum load
          factor.  It is encoded in the same way as byte 7 of cv47, and
          represents a floating-point number in units of 300 bits per
          second."

      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 5 }

appnCosTgRowConnCostMin OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Minimum acceptable cost per connect time for this class of
          service.

          Cost per connect time:  a value representing the relative
          cost per unit of time to use this TG.  Range is from 0, which
          means no cost, to 255."

      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 6 }

appnCosTgRowConnCostMax OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Maximum acceptable cost per connect time for this class of
          service.

          Cost per connect time:  a value representing the relative
          cost per unit of time to use this TG.  Range is from 0, which
          means no cost, to 255."

      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 7 }

appnCosTgRowByteCostMin OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Minimum acceptable cost per byte transmitted for this class
          of service.

          Cost per byte transmitted:  a value representing the relative
          cost per unit of time to use this TG.  Range is from 0, which
          means no cost, to 255."



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 87]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 8 }

appnCosTgRowByteCostMax OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Maximum acceptable cost per byte transmitted for this class
          of service.

          Cost per byte transmitted:  a value representing the relative
          cost of transmitting a byte over this TG.  Range is from 0,
          which means no cost, to 255."

      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 9 }

appnCosTgRowSecurityMin OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     nonsecure(1),               -- X'01'
                     publicSwitchedNetwork(32),  -- X'20'
                     undergroundCable(64),       -- X'40'
                     secureConduit(96),          -- X'60'
                     guardedConduit(128),        -- X'80'
                     encrypted(160),             -- X'A0'
                     guardedRadiation(192)       -- X'C0'
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Minimum acceptable security for this class of service.

          If a network needs security values other than the
          architecturally defined ones listed here, one of the three
          user-defined characteristics may be used to specify the
          required additional security values."

      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 10 }

appnCosTgRowSecurityMax OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     nonsecure(1),               -- X'01'
                     publicSwitchedNetwork(32),  -- X'20'
                     undergroundCable(64),       -- X'40'
                     secureConduit(96),          -- X'60'
                     guardedConduit(128),        -- X'80'
                     encrypted(160),             -- X'A0'



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 88]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


                     guardedRadiation(192)       -- X'C0'
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Maximum acceptable security for this class of service.

          If a network needs security values other than the
          architecturally defined ones listed here, one of the three
          user-defined characteristics may be used to specify the
          required additional security values."

      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 11 }

appnCosTgRowDelayMin OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Minimum acceptable propagation delay for this class of
          service.

          Relative amount of time that it takes for a signal to travel
          the length of the logical link.  This time is represented in
          microseconds, using the same encoding scheme used in cv47 in a
          topology update.  Some of the more common values, along with
          their encoded hex values, are:

                     minimum(0),                 X'00'
                     negligible(384),            X'4C'
                     terrestrial(9216),          X'71'
                     packet(147456),             X'91'
                     long(294912),               X'99'
                     maximum(2013265920)         X'FF'
          "

      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 12 }

appnCosTgRowDelayMax OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (1))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Maximum acceptable propagation delay for this class of
          service.




Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 89]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


          Relative amount of time that it takes for a signal to travel
          the length of the logical link.  This time is represented in
          microseconds, using the same encoding scheme used in cv47 in a
          topology update.  Some of the more common values, along with
          their encoded hex values, are:

                     minimum(0),                 X'00'
                     negligible(384),            X'4C'
                     terrestrial(9216),          X'71'
                     packet(147456),             X'91'
                     long(294912),               X'99'
                     maximum(2013265920)         X'FF'
          "

      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 13 }

appnCosTgRowUsr1Min OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Minimum acceptable value for this user-defined
          characteristic."

      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 14 }

appnCosTgRowUsr1Max OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Maximum acceptable value for this user-defined
          characteristic."

      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 15 }

appnCosTgRowUsr2Min OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Minimum acceptable value for this user-defined
          characteristic."

      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 16 }




Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 90]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


appnCosTgRowUsr2Max OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Maximum acceptable value for this user-defined
          characteristic."

      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 17 }

appnCosTgRowUsr3Min OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Minimum acceptable value for this user-defined
          characteristic."

      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 18 }

appnCosTgRowUsr3Max OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Maximum acceptable value for this user-defined
          characteristic."

      ::= { appnCosTgRowEntry 19 }

-- *********************************************************************
-- Intermediate Session Information
-- *********************************************************************
appnSessIntermediate  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnObjects 6 }

-- *********************************************************************
-- Intermediate Session Information Global Objects
-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
-- The following simple objects allow the collection of intermediate
-- session Information to be started and stopped.
-- *********************************************************************
appnIsInGlobal OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnSessIntermediate 1 }

appnIsInGlobeCtrAdminStatus OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                      notActive(1),



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 91]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


                      active(2),
                      ready(3)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-write
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Object by which a Management Station can deactivate or
          activate capture of intermediate-session counter data and
          names, by setting the value to notActive(1) or active(2),
          respectively.  The value ready(3) has no meaning on a set
          operation; it is returned in response to a get operation if no
          set operation has been directed to this object.

          The counters referred to here are the eight objects in the
          AppnIsInTable, from appnIsInP2SFmdPius through
          appnIsInS2PNonFmdBytes.  The names are the four objects in this
          table, from appnIsInPriLuName through appnIsInCosName.

          Setting this object to the following values has the following
          effects:

              notActive(1)  stop collecting counter data.  If a counter
                            is queried, it returns the value 0.
                            Collection of names may, but need not be,
                            disabled.
              active(2)     start collecting counter data.  If it is
                            supported, collection of names is enabled."

      ::= { appnIsInGlobal 1 }

appnIsInGlobeCtrOperStatus OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                      notActive(1),
                      active(2)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether or not the intermediate session counters
          are active.  The counters referred to here are the eight
          objects in the AppnIsInTable, from appnIsInP2SFmdPius through
          appnIsInS2PNonFmdBytes.  These eight counters are of type
          Integer32 rather than Counter32 because when this object
          enters the notActive state, either because a Management
          Station has set appnInInGlobeCtrAdminStatus to notActive or
          because of a locally-initiated transition, the counters are



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 92]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


          all reset to 0.

          The values for this object are:

              notActive(1):  collection of counters is not active; if it
                             is queried, a counter returns the value 0.
              active(2):     collection of counters is active."

      ::= { appnIsInGlobal 2 }

appnIsInGlobeCtrStatusTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX TimeTicks
      UNITS "hundredths of a second"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The time since the appnIsInGlobeCtrOperStatus object last
          changed, measured in hundredths of a second.  This time can be
          used to identify when this change occurred in relation to other
          events in the agent, such as the last time the APPN node was
          re-initialized."

      ::= { appnIsInGlobal 3 }

appnIsInGlobeRscv OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                      notActive(1),
                      active(2)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-write
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates the current RSCV collection option in effect, and
          allows a Management Station to change the option.

          The values for this object are:

             notActive(1): collection of route selection control vectors
                           is not active.
             active(2):    collection of route selection control vectors
                           is active."

      ::= { appnIsInGlobal 4 }

appnIsInGlobeRscvTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX TimeTicks



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 93]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      UNITS "hundredths of a second"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The time since the appnIsInGlobeRscv object last changed,
          measured in hundredths of a second.  This time can be used to
          identify when this change occurred in relation to other events
          in the agent, such as the last time the APPN node was
          re-initialized."

      ::= { appnIsInGlobal 5 }


appnIsInGlobeActSess OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The number of currently active intermediate sessions."

      ::= { appnIsInGlobal 6 }

appnIsInGlobeHprActSess OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The number of currently active HPR intermediate sessions."

      ::= { appnIsInGlobal 7 }

-- *********************************************************************
-- Intermediate Session Information Table
-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
-- This table contains information on intermediate sessions
-- which are currently active.
-- *********************************************************************
appnIsInTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF AppnIsInEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Intermediate Session Information Table"

      ::= { appnSessIntermediate 2 }




Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 94]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


appnIsInEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX AppnIsInEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Entry of Intermediate Session Information Table."

      INDEX
             { appnIsInFqCpName,
               appnIsInPcid }

      ::= { appnIsInTable 1 }

AppnIsInEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
      appnIsInFqCpName            DisplayString,
      appnIsInPcid                OCTET STRING,

      appnIsInSessState           INTEGER,
      appnIsInPriLuName           DisplayString,
      appnIsInSecLuName           DisplayString,
      appnIsInModeName            DisplayString,
      appnIsInCosName             DisplayString,
      appnIsInTransPriority       INTEGER,

      appnIsInSessType            INTEGER,
      appnIsInSessUpTime          TimeTicks,
      appnIsInCtrUpTime           TimeTicks,

      appnIsInP2SFmdPius          Integer32,
      appnIsInS2PFmdPius          Integer32,
      appnIsInP2SNonFmdPius       Integer32,
      appnIsInS2PNonFmdPius       Integer32,
      appnIsInP2SFmdBytes         Integer32,
      appnIsInS2PFmdBytes         Integer32,
      appnIsInP2SNonFmdBytes      Integer32,
      appnIsInS2PNonFmdBytes      Integer32,

      appnIsInPsAdjCpName         DisplayString,
      appnIsInPsAdjTgNum          INTEGER,
      appnIsInPsSendMaxBtuSize    INTEGER,
      appnIsInPsSendPacingType    INTEGER,
      appnIsInPsSendRpc           Gauge32,
      appnIsInPsSendNxWndwSize    Gauge32,
      appnIsInPsRecvPacingType    INTEGER,
      appnIsInPsRecvRpc           Gauge32,
      appnIsInPsRecvNxWndwSize    Gauge32,



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 95]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      appnIsInSsAdjCpName         DisplayString,
      appnIsInSsAdjTgNum          INTEGER,
      appnIsInSsSendMaxBtuSize    INTEGER,
      appnIsInSsSendPacingType    INTEGER,
      appnIsInSsSendRpc           Gauge32,
      appnIsInSsSendNxWndwSize    Gauge32,
      appnIsInSsRecvPacingType    INTEGER,
      appnIsInSsRecvRpc           Gauge32,
      appnIsInSsRecvNxWndwSize    Gauge32,

      appnIsInRouteInfo           OCTET STRING,

      appnIsInRtpNceId            OCTET STRING,
      appnIsInRtpTcid             OCTET STRING
                     }

appnIsInFqCpName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (3..17))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The network-qualified control point name of the node at which
          the session and PCID originated.  For APPN and LEN nodes, this
          is either CP name of the APPN node at which the origin LU is
          located or the CP name of the NN serving the LEN node at which
          the origin LU is located.  For DLUR resources, it is the name
          of the owning SSCP.  This field is from 3 to 17 characters in
          length, including a period (.) which separates the NetId from
          the NAU name."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 1 }

appnIsInPcid OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING  (SIZE (8))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The procedure correlation identifier (PCID) of a
           session.  It is an 8-octet value assigned
           by the primary LU."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 2 }

appnIsInSessState OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER    {
                         inactive(1),



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 96]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


                         pendactive(2),
                         active(3),
                         pendinact(4)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-write
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates the state of the session:

              1. session is pending inactive
              2. session is pending active
              3. session is active
              4. session is inactive

          Active sessions can be deactivated by setting this object
          to inactive."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 3 }

appnIsInPriLuName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (0..17))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The primary LU name of the session.  A zero-length
          string indicates that this name is not available."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 4 }

appnIsInSecLuName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (0..17))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The secondary LU name of the session.  A zero-length
          string indicates that this name is not available."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 5 }

appnIsInModeName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString  (SIZE (0..8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The mode name used for this session.  A zero-length
          string indicates that this name is not available."



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 97]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      ::= { appnIsInEntry 6 }

appnIsInCosName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString  (SIZE (0..8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The Class of Service (COS) name used for this session.
          A zero-length string indicates that this name is not
          available."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 7 }

appnIsInTransPriority OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     low(1),               --X'01'
                     medium(2),            --X'02'
                     high(3),              --X'03'
                     network(4)            --X'04'
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Transmission priority for this class of service.  Values are:

              - low
              - medium
              - high
              - network "

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 8 }

appnIsInSessType OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     unknown(1),
                     lu62(2),
                     lu0thru3(3),
                     lu62dlur(4),
                     lu0thru3dlur(5)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The type of intermediate session.  Defined values are

              unknown      The session type is not known.



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 98]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


              lu62         A session between LUs of type 6.2
                           (as indicated by the LU type in Bind)

              lu0thru3     A session between LUs of type 0, 1, 2, or 3
                           (as indicated by the LU type in Bind)

              lu62dlur     A session between LUs of type 6.2
                           (as indicated by the LU type in Bind).
                           One of the LUs is a dependent LU supported
                           by the dependent LU requester (DLUR)
                           function at this node.

              lu0thru3dlur A session between LUs of type 0, 1, 2, or 3
                           (as indicated by the LU type in Bind)
                           One of the LUs is a dependent LU supported
                           by the dependent LU requester (DLUR)
                           function at this node."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 9 }

appnIsInSessUpTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX TimeTicks
      UNITS "hundredths of a second"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Length of time the session has been active, measured in
          hundredths of a second."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 10 }

appnIsInCtrUpTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX TimeTicks
      UNITS "hundredths of a second"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Length of time the session counters have been active, measured
          in hundredths of a second."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 11 }

appnIsInP2SFmdPius OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current



Expires September 04, 1996                                     [Page 99]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of FMD PIUs sent from the Primary LU to the Secondary
          LU since the counters were last activated."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 12 }

appnIsInS2PFmdPius OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of FMD PIUs sent from the Secondary LU to the Primary
          LU since the counters were last activated."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 13 }

appnIsInP2SNonFmdPius OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of non-FMD PIUs sent from the Primary LU to the
          Secondary LU since the counters were last activated."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 14 }

appnIsInS2PNonFmdPius OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of non-FMD PIUs sent from the Secondary LU to the
          Primary LU since the counters were last activated."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 15 }

appnIsInP2SFmdBytes OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of FMD bytes sent from the Primary LU to the Secondary
          LU since the counters were last activated."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 16 }




Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 100]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


appnIsInS2PFmdBytes OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of FMD bytes sent from the Secondary LU to the Primary
          LU since the counters were last activated."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 17 }

appnIsInP2SNonFmdBytes OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of non-FMD bytes sent from the Primary LU to the
          Secondary LU since the counters were last activated."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 18 }

appnIsInS2PNonFmdBytes OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of non-FMD bytes sent from the Secondary LU to the
          Primary LU since the counters were last activated."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 19 }

appnIsInPsAdjCpName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (3..17))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The primary stage adjacent CP name of this session."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 20 }

appnIsInPsAdjTgNum OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The primary stage adjacent transmission group (TG) number
           associated with this session."



Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 101]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      ::= { appnIsInEntry 21 }

appnIsInPsSendMaxBtuSize OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (99..32767)
      UNITS "bytes"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The primary stage maximum basic transmission unit (BTU) size
          for sending data."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 22 }

appnIsInPsSendPacingType OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     fixed(1),
                     adaptive(2)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The primary stage type of pacing being used
           for sending data."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 23 }

appnIsInPsSendRpc OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The primary stage send residual pace count.  This represents
            the primary stage number of MU's that can still be sent
            in the current session window."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 24 }

appnIsInPsSendNxWndwSize OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The primary stage size of the next window which will
           be used to send data."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 25 }



Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 102]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


appnIsInPsRecvPacingType OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     fixed(1),
                     adaptive(2)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The primary stage type of pacing being used
           for receiving data."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 26 }

appnIsInPsRecvRpc OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The primary stage receive residual pace count.  This
          represents the primary stage number of MU's that can still be
          received in the current session window."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 27 }

appnIsInPsRecvNxWndwSize OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The primary stage size of the next window which will
           be used to receive data."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 28 }

appnIsInSsAdjCpName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (3..17))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The secondary stage adjacent CP name of this session."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 29 }

appnIsInSsAdjTgNum OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255)
      MAX-ACCESS read-only



Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 103]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The secondary stage adjacent transmission group (TG) number
           associated with this session."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 30 }

appnIsInSsSendMaxBtuSize OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER (99..32767)
      UNITS "bytes"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The secondary stage maximum basic transmission unit (BTU) size
          for sending data."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 31 }

appnIsInSsSendPacingType OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     fixed(1),
                     adaptive(2)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The secondary stage type of pacing being used
           for sending data."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 32 }

appnIsInSsSendRpc OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The secondary stage send residual pace count.  This represents
           the secondary stage number of MU's that can still be sent
           in the current session window."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 33 }

appnIsInSsSendNxWndwSize OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current



Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 104]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      DESCRIPTION
          "The secondary stage size of the next window which will
           be used to send data."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 34 }

appnIsInSsRecvPacingType OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER {
                     fixed(1),
                     adaptive(2)
                     }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The secondary stage type of pacing being used
           for receiving data."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 35 }

appnIsInSsRecvRpc OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The secondary stage send residual pace count.  This represents
           the secondary stage number of MU's that can still be
           received in the current session window."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 36 }

appnIsInSsRecvNxWndwSize OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The secondary stage size of the next window which will
           be used to receive data."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 37 }

appnIsInRouteInfo OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (0..255))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The route selection control vector (RSCV x'2B')



Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 105]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


           used for this session.  It is present for APPN nodes;
           but is not present for LEN nodes.  The format of this
           vector is described in SNA Formats."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 38 }

appnIsInRtpNceId OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (1..8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The HPR local Network Connection Endpoint of the session."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 39 }

appnIsInRtpTcid OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The RTP connection local TCID of the session."

      ::= { appnIsInEntry 40 }

-- *********************************************************************
-- Intermediate Session RTP Table
-- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
-- This table contains information on intermediate sessions that are
-- being transported on RTP connections by High Performance Routing (HPR)
-- *********************************************************************
appnIsRtpTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF AppnIsRtpEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "A table indicating how many ISR sessions are transported by
          each RTP connection."

      ::= { appnSessIntermediate 3 }

appnIsRtpEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX AppnIsRtpEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Entry of Intermediate Session RTP Table."



Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 106]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      INDEX
             { appnIsRtpNceId,
               appnIsRtpTcid }

      ::= { appnIsRtpTable 1 }

AppnIsRtpEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
      appnIsRtpNceId              OCTET STRING,
      appnIsRtpTcid               OCTET STRING,
      appnIsRtpSessions           Gauge32
                     }

appnIsRtpNceId OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The local Network Connection Endpoint of the RTP connection."

      ::= { appnIsRtpEntry  1 }

appnIsRtpTcid OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The local TCID of the RTP connection."

      ::= { appnIsRtpEntry  2 }

appnIsRtpSessions OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The number of intermediate sessions using this RTP
          connection."

      ::= { appnIsRtpEntry  3 }


-- *********************************************************************
  appnTraps               OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnMIB 2 }
-- *********************************************************************

alertTrap NOTIFICATION-TYPE



Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 107]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


      OBJECTS  { alertIdNumber, affectedObject }
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This trap carries a 32-bit SNA/MS Alert ID Number, as
          specified in SNA Formats."

      ::= { appnTraps 1 }

alertIdNumber OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "A 32-bit SNA/MS Alert ID Number, as specified in SNA Formats."

      ::= { appnTraps 2 }

affectedObject OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX VariablePointer
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The MIB object associated with the Alert condition, if there
          is an object associated with it."

      ::= { appnTraps 3 }

-- *********************************************************************
-- Conformance information
-- *********************************************************************

appnConformance       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {appnMIB 3 }

appnCompliances       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {appnConformance 1 }
appnGroups            OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {appnConformance 2 }

-- Compliance statements
appnCompliance  MODULE-COMPLIANCE
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
                "The compliance statement for the SNMPv2 entities
                which implement the APPN MIB."
        MODULE  -- this module

--      Unconditionally mandatory groups
                MANDATORY-GROUPS  {



Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 108]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


                        appnGeneralConfGroup,
                        appnPortConfGroup,
                        appnLinkConfGroup,
                        appnLocalTgConfGroup,
                        appnDirTableConfGroup
                 }

--      Conditionally mandatory groups
                GROUP  appnNnUniqueConfGroup
                DESCRIPTION
                        "The appnNnUniqueConfGroup is mandatory only for
                        network nodes."

                GROUP  appnEnUniqueConfGroup
                DESCRIPTION
                        "The appnEnUniqueConfGroup is mandatory only for
                        end nodes."

                GROUP  appnVrnConfGroup
                DESCRIPTION
                        "The appnVrnConfGroup is mandatory only for
                        network nodes and end nodes that implement
                        virtual routing node support."

                GROUP  appnNnTopoConfGroup
                DESCRIPTION
                        "The appnNnTopoConfGroup is mandatory only for
                        network nodes."

                GROUP  appnLocalEnTopoConfGroup
                DESCRIPTION
                        "The appnLocalEnTopoConfGroup is mandatory only
                        for network nodes."

                GROUP  appnLocalDirPerfConfGroup
                DESCRIPTION
                        "The appnLocalDirPerfConfGroup is mandatory only
                        for network nodes and end nodes."

                GROUP  appnCosConfGroup
                DESCRIPTION
                        "The appnCosConfGroup is mandatory only
                        for network nodes and end nodes."

                GROUP  appnIntSessConfGroup
                DESCRIPTION



Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 109]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


                        "The appnIntSessConfGroup is mandatory only
                        for network nodes."

                GROUP  appnTrapConfGroup
                DESCRIPTION
                        "Traps are optional for all nodes."
        ::= {appnCompliances 1 }

-- Units of conformance
appnGeneralConfGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS  {
                 appnNodeCpName,
                 appnNodeMibVersion,
                 appnNodeId,
                 appnNodeType,
                 appnNodeUpTime,
                 appnNodeParallelTg,
                 appnNodeAdaptiveBindPacing,
                 appnNodeHprSupport,
                 appnNodeMaxSessPerHprConn,
                 appnNodeHprIntRteSetups,
                 appnNodeHprIntRteRejects,
                 appnNodeHprOrgRteSetups,
                 appnNodeHprOrgRteRejects,
                 appnNodeHprEndRteSetups,
                 appnNodeHprEndRteRejects
                 }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
                "A collection of objects providing the instrumentation of
                APPN general information and capabilities."
        ::= { appnGroups 1 }

appnPortConfGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS  {
                 appnPortAdminState,
                 appnPortOperState,
                 appnPortDlcType,
                 appnPortPortType,
                 appnPortSIMRIM,
                 appnPortLsRole,
                 appnPortNegotLs,
                 appnPortDynamicLinkSupport,
                 appnPortMaxRcvBtuSize,
                 appnPortMaxIframeWindow,
                 appnPortDefLsGoodXids,



Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 110]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


                 appnPortDefLsBadXids,
                 appnPortDynLsGoodXids,
                 appnPortDynLsBadXids,
                 appnPortSpecific,
                 appnPortDlcLocalAddr
                 }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
                "A collection of objects providing the instrumentation of
                APPN port information."
        ::= { appnGroups 2 }

appnLinkConfGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS  {
                 appnLsAdminState,
                 appnLsOperState,
                 appnLsPortName,
                 appnLsDlcType,
                 appnLsDynamic,
                 appnLsAdjCpName,
                 appnLsAdjNodeType,
                 appnLsTgNum,
                 appnLsLimResource,
                 appnLsActOnDemand,
                 appnLsMigration,
                 appnLsPartnerNodeId,
                 appnLsCpCpSessionSupport,
                 appnLsTargetPacingCount,
                 appnLsMaxSendBtuSize,
                 appnLsInXidBytes,
                 appnLsInMsgBytes,
                 appnLsInXidFrames,
                 appnLsInMsgFrames,
                 appnLsOutXidBytes,
                 appnLsOutMsgBytes,
                 appnLsOutXidFrames,
                 appnLsOutMsgFrames,
                 appnLsEchoRsps,
                 appnLsCurrentDelay,
                 appnLsMaxDelay,
                 appnLsMinDelay,
                 appnLsMaxDelayTime,
                 appnLsGoodXids,
                 appnLsBadXids,
                 appnLsSpecific,
                 appnLsActiveTime,



Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 111]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


                 appnLsCurrentStateTime,
                 appnLsHprSup,
                 appnLsDestHprTrans,
                 appnLsErrRecoSup,
                 appnLsForAnrLabel,
                 appnLsRevAnrLabel,
                 appnLsCpCpNceId,
                 appnLsRouteNceId,
                 appnLsLocalAddr,
                 appnLsRemoteAddr,
                 appnLsRemoteLsName,
                 appnLsStatusTime,
                 appnLsStatusLsName,
                 appnLsStatusCpName,
                 appnLsStatusPartnerId,
                 appnLsStatusTgNum,
                 appnLsStatusGeneralSense,
                 appnLsStatusRetry,
                 appnLsStatusEndSense,
                 appnLsStatusXidLocalSense,
                 appnLsStatusXidRemoteSense,
                 appnLsStatusXidByteInError,
                 appnLsStatusXidBitInError,
                 appnLsStatusDlcType,
                 appnLsStatusLocalAddr,
                 appnLsStatusRemoteAddr
                 }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
                "A collection of objects providing the instrumentation of
                APPN link information."
        ::= { appnGroups 3 }

appnLocalTgConfGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS  {
                 appnLocalTgDestVirtual,
                 appnLocalTgDlcData,
                 appnLocalTgPortName,
                 appnLocalTgQuiescing,
                 appnLocalTgOperational,
                 appnLocalTgCpCpSession,
                 appnLocalTgEffCap,
                 appnLocalTgConnCost,
                 appnLocalTgByteCost,
                 appnLocalTgSecurity,
                 appnLocalTgDelay,



Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 112]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


                 appnLocalTgUsr1,
                 appnLocalTgUsr2,
                 appnLocalTgUsr3,
                 appnLocalTgHprSup,
                 appnLocalTgDestHprTrans,
                 appnLocalTgIntersubnet
                 }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
                "A collection of objects providing the instrumentation of
                APPN local TG information."
        ::= { appnGroups 4 }

appnDirTableConfGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS  {
                 appnDirNnServerName,
                 appnDirLuOwnerName,
                 appnDirLuLocation,
                 appnDirType
                 }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
                "A collection of objects providing the instrumentation of
                the APPN directory database."
        ::= { appnGroups 5 }

appnNnUniqueConfGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS  {
                 appnNodeNnCentralDirectory,
                 appnNodeNnTreeCache,
                 appnNodeNnRouteAddResist,
                 appnNodeNnIsr,
                 appnNodeNnFrsn,
                 appnNodeNnPeriBorderSup,
                 appnNodeNnInterchangeSup,
                 appnNodeNnExteBorderSup,
                 appnNodeNnSafeStoreFreq,
                 appnNodeNnRsn,
                 appnNodeNnCongested,
                 appnNodeNnIsrDepleted,
                 appnNodeNnQuiescing,
                 appnNodeNnGateway
                 }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
                        "The appnNnUniqueConfGroup is mandatory only for



Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 113]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


                        network nodes."
        ::= { appnGroups 6 }

appnEnUniqueConfGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS  {
                 appnNodeEnModeCosMap,
                 appnNodeEnNnServer,
                 appnNodeEnLuSearch
                 }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
                        "The appnEnUniqueConfGroup is mandatory only for
                        end nodes."
        ::= { appnGroups 7 }

appnVrnConfGroup       OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS  {
                 appnVrnPortName
                 }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
                        "The appnVrnConfGroup is mandatory only for
                        network nodes and end nodes."
        ::= { appnGroups 8 }

appnNnTopoConfGroup    OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS  {
                 appnNnTopoMaxNodes,
                 appnNnTopoCurNumNodes,
                 appnNnTopoNodePurges,
                 appnNnTopoTgPurges,
                 appnNnTopoTotalTduWars,
                 appnNnNodeFREntryTimeLeft,
                 appnNnNodeFRType,
                 appnNnNodeFRRsn,
                 appnNnNodeFRRouteAddResist,
                 appnNnNodeFRCongested,
                 appnNnNodeFRIsrDepleted,
                 appnNnNodeFRQuiescing,
                 appnNnNodeFRGateway,
                 appnNnNodeFRCentralDirectory,
                 appnNnNodeFRIsr,
                 appnNnNodeFRGarbageCollect,
                 appnNnNodeFRHprSupport,
                 appnNnNodeFRPeriBorderSup,
                 appnNnNodeFRInterchangeSup,



Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 114]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


                 appnNnNodeFRExteBorderSup,
                 appnNnTgFREntryTimeLeft,
                 appnNnTgFRDestVirtual,
                 appnNnTgFRDlcData,
                 appnNnTgFRRsn,
                 appnNnTgFROperational,
                 appnNnTgFRQuiescing,
                 appnNnTgFRCpCpSession,
                 appnNnTgFREffCap,
                 appnNnTgFRConnCost,
                 appnNnTgFRByteCost,
                 appnNnTgFRSecurity,
                 appnNnTgFRDelay,
                 appnNnTgFRUsr1,
                 appnNnTgFRUsr2,
                 appnNnTgFRUsr3,
                 appnNnTgFRGarbageCollect,
                 appnNnTgFRSubareaNum,
                 appnNnTgFRHprSup,
                 appnNnTgFRDestHprTrans,
                 appnNnTgFRTypeIndicator,
                 appnNnTgFRIntersubnet
                 }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
                        "The appnNnTopoConfGroup is mandatory only for
                        network nodes."
        ::= { appnGroups 9 }

appnLocalEnTopoConfGroup   OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS  {
                 appnLocalEnTgEntryTimeLeft,
                 appnLocalEnTgDestVirtual,
                 appnLocalEnTgDlcData,
                 appnLocalEnTgOperational,
                 appnLocalEnTgCpCpSession,
                 appnLocalEnTgEffCap,
                 appnLocalEnTgConnCost,
                 appnLocalEnTgByteCost,
                 appnLocalEnTgSecurity,
                 appnLocalEnTgDelay,
                 appnLocalEnTgUsr1,
                 appnLocalEnTgUsr2,
                 appnLocalEnTgUsr3
                 }
        STATUS  current



Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 115]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


        DESCRIPTION
                        "The appnLocalEnTopoConfGroup is mandatory only
                        for network nodes."
        ::= { appnGroups 10 }

appnLocalDirPerfConfGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS  {
                 appnDirMaxCaches,
                 appnDirCurCaches,
                 appnDirCurHomeEntries,
                 appnDirRegEntries,
                 appnDirInLocates,
                 appnDirInBcastLocates,
                 appnDirOutLocates,
                 appnDirOutBcastLocates,
                 appnDirNotFoundLocates,
                 appnDirNotFoundBcastLocates,
                 appnDirLocateOutstands
                 }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
                        "The appnLocalDirPerfConfGroup is mandatory only
                        for network nodes and end nodes."
        ::= { appnGroups 11 }

appnCosConfGroup          OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS  {
                 appnCosModeCosName,
                 appnCosTransPriority,
                 appnCosNodeRowWgt,
                 appnCosNodeRowResistMin,
                 appnCosNodeRowResistMax,
                 appnCosNodeRowMinCongestAllow,
                 appnCosNodeRowMaxCongestAllow,
                 appnCosTgRowWgt,
                 appnCosTgRowEffCapMin,
                 appnCosTgRowEffCapMax,
                 appnCosTgRowConnCostMin,
                 appnCosTgRowConnCostMax,
                 appnCosTgRowByteCostMin,
                 appnCosTgRowByteCostMax,
                 appnCosTgRowSecurityMin,
                 appnCosTgRowSecurityMax,
                 appnCosTgRowDelayMin,
                 appnCosTgRowDelayMax,
                 appnCosTgRowUsr1Min,



Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 116]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


                 appnCosTgRowUsr1Max,
                 appnCosTgRowUsr2Min,
                 appnCosTgRowUsr2Max,
                 appnCosTgRowUsr3Min,
                 appnCosTgRowUsr3Max
                 }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
                        "The appnCosConfGroup is mandatory only
                        for network nodes and end nodes."
        ::= { appnGroups 12 }

appnIntSessConfGroup    OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS  {
                 appnIsInGlobeCtrAdminStatus,
                 appnIsInGlobeCtrOperStatus,
                 appnIsInGlobeCtrStatusTime,
                 appnIsInGlobeRscv,
                 appnIsInGlobeRscvTime,
                 appnIsInGlobeActSess,
                 appnIsInGlobeHprActSess,
                 appnIsInSessState,
                 appnIsInPriLuName,
                 appnIsInSecLuName,
                 appnIsInModeName,
                 appnIsInCosName,
                 appnIsInTransPriority,
                 appnIsInSessType,
                 appnIsInSessUpTime,
                 appnIsInCtrUpTime,
                 appnIsInP2SFmdPius,
                 appnIsInS2PFmdPius,
                 appnIsInP2SNonFmdPius,
                 appnIsInS2PNonFmdPius,
                 appnIsInP2SFmdBytes,
                 appnIsInS2PFmdBytes,
                 appnIsInP2SNonFmdBytes,
                 appnIsInS2PNonFmdBytes,
                 appnIsInPsAdjCpName,
                 appnIsInPsAdjTgNum,
                 appnIsInPsSendMaxBtuSize,
                 appnIsInPsSendPacingType,
                 appnIsInPsSendRpc,
                 appnIsInPsSendNxWndwSize,
                 appnIsInPsRecvPacingType,
                 appnIsInPsRecvRpc,



Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 117]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


                 appnIsInPsRecvNxWndwSize,
                 appnIsInSsAdjCpName,
                 appnIsInSsAdjTgNum,
                 appnIsInSsSendMaxBtuSize,
                 appnIsInSsSendPacingType,
                 appnIsInSsSendRpc,
                 appnIsInSsSendNxWndwSize,
                 appnIsInSsRecvPacingType,
                 appnIsInSsRecvRpc,
                 appnIsInSsRecvNxWndwSize,
                 appnIsInRouteInfo,
                 appnIsInRtpNceId,
                 appnIsInRtpTcid,
                 appnIsRtpSessions
                 }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
                        "The appnIntSessConfGroup is mandatory only
                        for network nodes."
        ::= { appnGroups 13 }

appnTrapConfGroup    OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS  {
                 alertIdNumber,
                 affectedObject
                 }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
                        "The appnTrapConfGroup is optional for all groups."
        ::= { appnGroups 14 }

END

















Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 118]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


6.  Acknowledgments

This MIB module is the product of the IETF SNA NAU MIB WG and the AIW
APPN/HPR MIBs SIG.  Thanks to Wayne Clark, Jim Cobban, Rich Daugherty,
Mark Regan, and Leo Temoshenko for their contributions and review.


7.  References


[1]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S.
     Waldbusser, "Structure of Management Information for version 2 of
     the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902, January
     1996.

[2]  McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II", STD 17,
     RFC 1213, March 1991.

[3]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin, "Simple Network
     Management Protocol", RFC 1157, May 1990.

[4]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S.
     Waldbusser, "Protocol Operations for version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

[5]  IBM, Systems Network Architecture Technical Overview, GC30-3073.

[6]  IBM, Systems Network Architecture APPN Architecture Reference,
     SC30-3422

[7]  IBM, Systems Network Architecture Formats, SC30-3346.

[8]  Allen, M., Clouston, B., Kielczewski, Z., Kwan, W., and B. Moore,
     "Definition of Managed Objects for APPC", Wall Data Inc., Cisco
     Systems, Jupiter Technology Inc., IBM Corporation, December 1995.

[9]  Kielczewski, Z., Kostick D., and K. Shih, "Definition of Managed
     Objects for SNA NAUs using SMIv2", RFC 1666, Eicon Technology
     Corporation, Bell Communications Research, Novell, August 1994.

[10] __, APPN-DLUR-MIB, IBM Corporation







Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 119]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


8.  Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.


9.  Authors' Addresses

     Bob Clouston
     Cisco Systems
     7025 Kit Creek Road
     P.O. Box 14987
     Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA

     Tel:    1 919 472 2333
     E-mail: clouston@cisco.com


     Bob Moore
     IBM Corporation
     800 Park Offices Drive
     CNMA/664
     P.O. Box 12195
     Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA

     Tel:    1 919 254 4436
     E-mail: remoore@ralvm6.vnet.ibm.com























Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 120]

Internet Draft              SNANAU APPN MIB                   March 1996


10.  Table of Contents


   1.     Status of this Memo  ....................................  1
   2.     Introduction  ...........................................  1
   3.     The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework  ................  2
   4.     Overview  ...............................................  2
   4.1      APPN MIB structure ....................................  5
   5.     Definitions  ............................................  9
   6.     Acknowledgments  ........................................  119
   7.     References  .............................................  119
   8.     Security Considerations  ................................  120
   9.    Author's Addresses  ......................................  120




































Expires September 04, 1996                                    [Page 121]

