


Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


       Remote Network Monitoring MIB Extensions for ATM Networks
                  <draft-bierman-rmon-atmrmon-00.txt>

                           February 23, 1996


                              Andy Bierman
                           Bierman Consulting
                           abierman@west.net

                            Keith McCloghrie
                          Cisco Systems, Inc.
                             kzm@cisco.com






                          Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
``1id-abstracts.txt'' listing contained in the Internet- Drafts Shadow
Directories on ds.internic.net (US East Coast), nic.nordu.net (Europe),
ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast), or munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim).















Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                 [Page 1]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


1.  Introduction

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in the Internet
community.  In particular, it describes managed objects used for
managing remote monitoring probes, specifically for ATM networks.


1.1.  The SNMP Network Management Framework

The SNMP Network Management Framework presently consists of three major
components.  They are:

    the SMI, described in RFC 1902 [1] - the mechanisms used for
    describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.

    the MIB-II, STD 17, RFC 1213 [2] - the core set of managed objects
    for the Internet suite of protocols.

    the protocol, RFC 1157 [3] and/or RFC 1905 [4], - the protocol for
    accessing managed objects.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.


1.2.  Object Definitions

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) defined in the
SMI.  In particular, each object type is named by an OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
an administratively assigned name.  The object type together with an
object instance serves to uniquely identify a specific instantiation of
the object.  For human convenience, we often use a textual string,
termed the descriptor, to refer to the object type.














Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                 [Page 2]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


2.  Overview

This document addresses issues related to applying 'RMON technology' to
ATM Networks:

  -  functional applicability of existing RMON groups

  -  new functionality for ATM networks

  -  collection source design issues

  -  flexible resource allocation

  -  data reduction mechanisms

  -  standardization track issues

RMON-based applications can provide system administrators with valuable
data about network utilization and behavior. RMON agents offer
applications developers resource-intensive functions such as high-level
statistics gathering and low-level filtering/capture of MAC frames.

RMON is traditionally deployed as one or more NMS applications managing
multiple RMON probes, each of which is monitoring one or more network
segments. RMON for ATM networks will require a different deployment
model, as well as many other new MIB features.


2.1.  RMON Resource Sharing Model

There are some design features that are used throughout all the RMON
MIBs.  The most important is the RMON resource-sharing model. RMON
agents are expected to create certain 'common' data-collection resources
(ownerString starts with the string "monitor"). Only system
administrators should be allowed to delete or modify these 'monitor-
owned' resources.

NMS applications can create short-lived control entries (ownerString set
to unique NMS-ID) if the monitor-owned collections are not appropriate
for a given task. Some features, such as topN reporting, event-
reporting, history collection (other than 30 sec/30 min intervals), and
filter/capture, require NMS configuration in most implementations.

The resource owner (NMS) is expected to pick a unique value for the
owner string and supply this value in the first setRequest PDU creating





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                 [Page 3]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


the control row. An NMS must check the rowStatus object (i.e.
errorStatus of PDU setting status to createAnd* before using the
resource, to make sure another NMS was not allocated the resource
instead.  Before terminating, the NMS application must delete any
control entries that it created. There is no control-row garbage
collection defined in RMON, so an NMS application must check for its own
stale control entries before creating new ones, upon startup.

An NMS application may optionally use another applications' resources in
a read-only manner, if applicable. Usually, this is only done when a
resource request is refused. The system administrator is responsible for
deleting RMON resources (monitor or NMS-owned) to make room for new
applications.


2.2.  Relationship to Existing MIBs

There are several RFCs (and I-Ds) which specify RMON MIBs and agent
specifications:


2.2.1.  RMON

The Remote Network Monitoring MIB (RMON or RMON-1) (RFC1757) [5]]
provides several management functions that may be directly or indirectly
applicable to ATM Networks:

  -  detailed link layer statistics for ethernet segments (etherStats
     group)

  -  remote polling of detailed link layer statistics for ethernet
     segments (history, etherHistory groups)

  -  basic statistics--per host and per conversation--for all valid MAC
     addresses discovered on each monitored segment (host and matrix
     groups)

 -   TopN Report statistics (topN talkers or errors)--per-host--for each
     valid MAC address discovered on each monitored segment (hostTopN
     group) bit-level frame filtering and frame-slice capture (filter,
     channel, capture groups)

  -  simple threshold monitoring, event-logging, and event-notification
     for any MIB instance






Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                 [Page 4]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


2.2.2.  TR-RMON

The Token Ring Extensions for RMON MIB (RFC1513) (TR-RMON) [6] provides
the same kind of detailed link layer statistics and remote polling as
found in RMON-1 (tokenRingMLStats/History, tokenRingPStats/History). The
TR-RMON MIB is highly integrated with RMON-1, which is possible because
both link layers use the same address format. An RMON MIB for ATM could
be structured and positioned like the TR-MIB,  but none of the shared
tables can be directly applied to ATM. Since RMON-1 will be augmented
and updated by RMON-2, any ATM-RMON standardization effort within the
IETF should align with the RMON-2 MIB, but maintain the same 'extensions
MIB' structure as found in the TR-RMON MIB.


2.2.3.  RMON-2 MIB

The emerging 'RMON-2' standard (RMON-2) [7] provides many additions and
improvements to RMON-1:

  -  complete protocol distribution per segment (or 'collection source')

  -  collection of network to MAC address bindings seen in packets on
     all segments

  -  collection of source MAC address to physical interface bindings on
     all segments

  -  probe configuration, such as startup parameters and trap
     destination management

  -  collection of per network-layer host basic statistics (network
     layer and above)

  -  collection of per-conversation basic statistics (network layer and
     above)

  -  TopN Report statistics per conversation (network layer and above)

  -  improvements such as relative-offset frame filtering, user-defined
     remote-polling, faster table retrieval, and better accuracy
     reporting.

Although the protocol analysis features are not directly applicable,
there are many design improvements in RMON-2 that can be integrated into
ATM-RMON:





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                 [Page 5]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


  -  TimeFilter indexing (see section on post-collection data reduction
     for details)

  -  TopN report improvements such as auto-restart, report count, and
     'last-create-time' to detect discontinuities

  -  Control entry inserts and deletes counters (this replaces the
     RMON-1 'table-size' object)

  -  ProtocolDirectory collection-control design (i.e. central
     configuration defines what data is collected in each functional
     group)


2.2.4.  RMON-2 Protocol Identifiers

The RMON Protocol Identifiers Specification (RMONPROT) [8] defines
encoding rules for protocolDirID, protocolDirParameters, and
protocolDirType MIB objects It is required only if RMON-2 packet
analysis is applied to frames monitored (on circuits which use frames).
It is not directly applicable to the ATM-RMON MIB, and not discussed in
this document.


2.2.5.  ATOM MIB

The Atom MIB is the fundemental MIB for manging ATM networks (RFC 1695)
[9], but it is not directly referenced by this MIB, except for use of
the 'IfIndex' textual convention. It is possible other textual
conventions will be imported as well (TBD).


2.2.6.  ATOM Supplemental MIB

The Atom Supplemental MIB [10] defines additional management
capabilities for ATM networks. The 'AtmAddr' textual convention is
imported from this MIB, but no other relationship exists at this time.


2.3.  ATM-RMON Functional Requirements

Applying RMON to ATM networks will require some new design changes and
new functionality. Special problems such as  high speeds, "cells vs.
frames" issues, and the connection-oriented nature of ATM need special
MIB solutions in order to implement RMON for ATM networks.





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                 [Page 6]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


2.3.1.  Collection Perspective

There are four different 'collection perspectives' that should be
accommodated:

(A)  stand-alone probe attached to a single port of a switch. ATM
     traffic is copied somehow to the RMON probe.

(B)  embedded probe within a switch., with no access to the switch
     fabric. ATM traffic is copied somehow to the RMON probe.

(C)  embedded probe within a switch, with access to the switch fabric.
     ATM traffic is monitored directly, probably implemented in
     hardware.  Probes of this type are likely to monitor traffic at
     cell header level only. A lower level of conformance, or some other
     mechanism (e.g.  additional software), will most likely be needed
     for this type of probe.

(D)  stand-alone probe, tapping an NNI link between two switches.  ATM
     traffic is monitored directly (subject to probe capabilities),
     without switch intervention. All cells in both directions are
     copied somehow to the RMON probe.




























Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                 [Page 7]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


                          Figure 1: Probe Location

     +----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
     |                                                                            |
     |  External Probe w/Circuit Steering      Internal Probe w/Circuit Steering  |
     |  ---------------------------------      ---------------------------------  |
     |                                                                            |
     |                 ||                                    ||                   |
     |                 ||                                    ||                   |
     |      +----------++----------+              +----------++-----------+       |
     |      | (A)                  |              | (B)                   |       |
     |  ====|    ATM Switch        |====      ====|  ATM Switch  | |      |====   |
     |      |                      |              |              V V      |       |
     |      +----------++----------+              |  +------------------+ |       |
     |                 ||  | |                    |  |    RMON probe    | |       |
     |                 ||  V V                    |  +------------------+ |       |
     |      +----------------------+              +----------++-----------+       |
     |      |     RMON probe       |                         ||                   |
     |      +----------------------+                         ||                   |
     |                                                                            |
     |                                                                            |
     |  Internal Probe wo/Circuit Steering    External Probe wo/Circuit Steering  |
     |  ----------------------------------    ----------------------------------  |
     |                                                                            |
     |               ||                          ||                     ||        |
     |               ||                          ||                     ||        |
     |      +--------++-------+           +------++------+       +------++------+ |
     |      | (C)             |           | (D)          |       |              | |
     |  ====|   ATM Switch w/ |====   ====| ATM Switch 1 |===++==| ATM Switch 2 | |
     |      |  internal RMON  |           |              |   ||  |              | |
     |      | instrumentation |           +------++------+   ||  +------++------+ |
     |      +-----------------+                  ||          ||         ||        |
     |               ||                          ||          ||         ||        |
     |               ||                               +------++------+            |
     |                                                |  RMON probe  |            |
     |                                                +--------------+            |
     |                                                                            |
     +----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Unless RMON instrumentation is embedded into the switch fabric (C), or
placed between two switches (D), then circuit steering is required (A
and B) for RMON instrumentation software to access ATM traffic. For such
probes, each full-duplex circuit is (presumably) mapped into two
redirected half-duplex circuits:






Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                 [Page 8]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


  -  inbound(ifIndex/VPI/VCI)

  -  outbound(ifIndex/VPI/VCI)

A 'probe-tap' (D) does not pre-filter data by selecting particular
circuits for monitoring. Instead, it receives al VCs on an NNI link,
without switch participation.


2.3.2.  Cell Collection Requirements

The ATM-RMON MIB will provide the following new functionality:

  -  ATM layer instrumentation

  -  complex collection source aggregation

  -  data reduction configuration and status

  -  basic cell statistics  (i.e. statsTable)

  -  basic cell statistics per host  (i.e. hostTable)

  -  basic cell counts per conversation  (i.e. matrixTable)

Circuit Steering requirements are not addressed in this document.  RMON
collection requirements will be considered independently of circuit
steering techniques. Although references to 'copied' circuits are made
in this document, actual circuit-steering implementation may be
different.

At this time, only some very basic statistics are defined:

  -  point-to-point cell count

  -  point-to-multipoint cell count

  -  number of point-to-point calls

  -  number of point-to-multipoint calls

  -  total point-to-point connection time

  -  total point-to-multipoint connection time






Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                 [Page 9]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


Other statistics (e.g. error counters) may be added in the future.


2.3.3.  Frame Collection Requirements

An optional feature set for ATM-RMON is the analysis of frames on AAL-5
circuits. This can be accomplished with some minor additions to the
RMON-1 or RMON-2 MIBs.  New values for dataSource objects can be defined
which reference ATM collection sources (see MIB proposal below).  The
data can be formatted into RMON-1 host, matrix, hostTopN, and
filter/capture groups with virtually no MIB changes. By adding
encapsulation definitions to the RMON-2 protocolDirectory, RMON-2 host,
matrix, matrixTopN, and filter2 groups can be implemented for  ATM
network traffic.

[TBD: Details on frame analysis integration w/RMON-1 and RMON-2 MIBs.]


2.4.  ATM-RMON Design Goals

The RMON Working Group within the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)
will be updating and augmenting the RMON MIB soon, and several of these
changes can be incorporated into an ATM-RMON MIB. The main advantages to
'borrowing' from the existing RMON MIB:

  -  allow system administrators to reuse operational experience with
     RMON concepts and RMON data presentation (e.g. basic/host/matrix
     stats for a given media or protocol).

  -  allow portions of standard MIBs to be applied directly to ATM-RMON
     without modification.

  -  allow RMON NMS and probe vendors to possibly take advantage of
     their RMON-1 implementation experience.

  -  allow flexible configuration with low complexity.

ATM-RMON will require new configuration mechanisms to deal with varying
application needs and probe capabilities. RMON-1 defines a 'dataSource'
object of type OBJECT IDENTIFIER, which allows new or proprietary
mechanisms beyond the 'ifIndex' object. RMON-2 provides for extension of
allowable dataSource values. (The 'ifIndex.N' and
'rptrGroupPortIndex.N.M' formats are the only collection sources
supported by the RMON WG at this time, but vendors are free to define
unofficial values.)  New MIB tables to specify collection parameters for





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 10]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


ATM will be required. The dataSource object can be used to reference a
circuit-selection control entry instead of an instance of ifIndex.

The ability to select circuits for monitoring is important for the
conservation of agent resources. An NMS must be able to specify an
arbitrary number of circuits (subject to agent capabilities), in
combination with circuits that are selected by the ATM address(es). This
requires:

  -  a mechanism to include or exclude connections by {ifIndex/VPI/VCI}
     tuples -- intended for PVC capture

  -  a mechanism to include or exclude all connections for a given ATM
     address or masked address -- intended for SVC capture

  -  a mechanism to 'glue' all the selection logic together

2.4.1.  Data Reduction

Traditionally, RMON host and matrix tables can be very large, and take a
great deal of resources to manage by the NMS and maintain by the agent.
The high speeds and complex collection requirements make it very
desirable to reduce both the agent and NMS load for processing RMON
data.

Generally, agent resources can be saved with pre-collection data
reduction, and NMS resources can be saved with post-collection data
reduction. Both  types are integrated into ATM-RMON.


2.4.1.1.  Pre-collection Data Reduction

The most effective way to save probe resources is to limit what data is
ever processed in any manner by the probe:

  -  sampling of frames to allow a probe to decode a subset of all
     possible frames on a given collection source.

  -  need to disallow sampling on some circuits.

  -  sampling configuration -- need balance between NMS and agent
     configuration

  -  need sampling accuracy reporting






Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 11]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


  -  need powerful, yet easy-to-configure circuit selection to direct
     probe resources most efficiently

Resources can be optimized (in an implementation-specific manner) by
statistical sampling of all cells within a given cell flow.  Sampling
may also apply to circuit selection on one or more ports within a given
switch.

Sampling can be useful for frame analysis, and accomplished (in an
implementation-specific manner) by capturing all the consecutive cells
which comprise a particular frame.


2.4.1.2.  Post-collection Data Reduction

Even with pre-collection data reduction it is likely ATM-RMON data
tables will grow quite large, so it is also desirable to minimimze the
number of SNMP transactions required to retrieve or refresh these data
tables.  The mechanisms included in this MIB are:

  -  Time Filter indexing -- allows an NMS to retrieve only the changed
     values since its last polling interval.

  -  selection aggregation -- address-masking capability of the circuit
     selection feature allows an NMS to reduce the number of actual
     counters maintained by the probe.

  -  TopN Report aggregation -- probe continuously monitors the top
     talkers over a given interval, and automatically generates a report
     at the end of each interval.

2.4.2.  Collection Source Issues

The current RMON 'dataSource' model is not particularly useful for ATM
networks, since ATM is connection-oriented, and is not used in this MIB.
Instead, a set of global tables are used to define 'circuit selection
groups' (called 'vcSelectGroups'). Traditional RMON collections (e.g.
stats, host, hostTopN, matrix) can be done using a vcSelectGroup as the
dataSource. Some issues regarding the design of the ATM-RMON 'dataSource
model' include:

  -  collection criteria must be detailed -- combined criteria with
     include/exclude , masking







Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 12]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


  -  collection criteria setup cannot be modified on the fly for a
     particular vcSelectGroup, while any collections based on that
     vcSelectGroup are in progress. However, vcSelectGroups can be added
     and deleted while collections based on existed vcSelectGroups are
     in progress.

  -  selection MIB table setup rules TBD (i.e. overall logic is
     combinatorial, but some precedence rules and corner cases must be
     documented).









































Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 13]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


3.  MIB Proposal

The following MIB proposal is based, in part, on the RMON-2 MIB. The
open issues list:

  -  no error counter instrumentation yet

  -  no matrix TopN functionality yet

  -  no notifications/traps defined yet

  -  still needs to be syntax-checked and MIB-linted

     some details on configuration, rollover time issues, 64-bit counter
     SMI issues, and frame/cells/both selection are still TBD

RMON-1 and RMON-2 integration is achieved by setting the particular
dataSource object to reference an instance of the 'vcSelectGroupIndex'
object, but details are not discussed in this MIB.


3.1.  MIB Structure

The MIB contains four groups:

  -  vcSelect -- circuit selection; data tables indexed by a common
     index 'vcSelectGroupIndex', which replaces the dataSource indirect
     pointer and arbitrary small integer index used in RMON-1/RMON-2

  -  atmStats -- basic statistics; allows individual host traffic
     contribution percentage to be easily calculated.

  -  atmHost -- ATM host statistics and hostTopN reporting

  -  atmMatrix -- ATM circuit statistics















Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 14]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


                      Figure 2: ATM-RMON MIB Structure

     +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
     |                                                                             |
     |  +---------------+                                                          |
     |  | vcSelectGroup |                   +------------+                         |
     |  +---------------+     >       ----> |  atmStats  |                         |
     |      | |                >            +------------+                         |
     |      | |                 >                                                  |
     |      | |   +-----------+  >                                +-------------+  |
     |      | +-> | pvcSelect |   >         +------------+      +-+-----------+ |  |
     |      |     +-----------+    >  ----> |  atmHost   | ---> | atmHostTopN |-+  |
     |      |                       >       +------------+      +-------------+    |
     |      |                       >                                              |
     |      |     +-----------+    >                                               |
     |      +---> | svcSelect |   >         +------------+                         |
     |            +-----------+  >    ----> +  atmMatrix |                         |
     |                          >           +------------+                         |
     |                         >                                                   |
     |                                                                             |
     +-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

The vcSelectGroup is used to define the VCCs to be monitored for a
particular set of functions (a subset of all ATM-RMON, RMON-1, and
RMON-2 groups).  Each vcSelectGroup is used as a collection source for
zero or one atmStats, atmHost, and atmMatrix collections. There may be
an arbitrary number of atmHostTopN entries defined per vcSelectGroup.

For processing of frames collected (in an implementation-specific way)
from the vcSelectGroup, the appropriate RMON-1 or RMON-2 dataSource
instance is set to the OBJECT IDENTIFIER 'vcSelectGroupIndex.I'.  [TBD:
Row creation, modification, and deletion problems related to table
dependencies between ATM-RMON and the other RMON MIBs.

For processing of packets collected on behalf the RMON-2 MIB, the
propoer protocol identifiers must be set up before the nlHost, alHost,
nlMatrix, alMatrix, and filter2 groups can be utilized. [TBD ATM
encapsulation macro identifier additions to [8].]












Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 15]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


4.  Definitions

ATM-RMON-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, Counter32,
    Integer32, Gauge32, IpAddress,
    TimeTicks, Counter64, experimental
        FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    TEXTUAL-CONVENTION, RowStatus, DisplayString,
    TimeStamp, TruthValue
        FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP
        FROM SNMPv2-CONF
    OwnerString
        FROM RFC1757-MIB
    ZeroBasedCounter32, LastCreateTime, TimeFilter
        FROM RMON2-MIB
    IfIndex
        FROM ATM-MIB
    AtmAddr
        FROM ATM2-MIB;

      --  Remote Network Monitoring MIB for ATM Networks

atmRmon MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9602210000Z"
    ORGANIZATION "IETF"
    CONTACT-INFO
        "Andy Bierman
         Bierman Consulting
         Phone:  +1 805 648 2028
         Email:  abierman@west.net

         Keith McCloghrie
         Cisco Systems, Inc.
         Phone: +1 408 526-5260
         Email: kzm@cisco.com"
    DESCRIPTION
            "The MIB module for managing remote monitoring device
            implementations for ATM networks."
    ::= { experimental xx }

vcSelect       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { atmRmon 1 }
atmStats       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { atmRmon 2 }





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 16]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


atmHost        OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { atmRmon 3 }
atmMatrix      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { atmRmon 4 }

atmRmonConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { atmRmon 5 }














































Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 17]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    -- Textual Conventions:

QoSIndex ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This TC describes an object that identifies the cell
            delivery quality-of-service classification, associated with
            a particular vcSelectGroup collection."
    SYNTAX INTEGER  {
        unknownQos(1),  -- includes 'other'; [need separate enum?]
        cbrQos(2),      -- constant bit rate
        rtVbrQos(3),    -- variable bit rate (real-time)
        nrtVbrQos(4),   -- variable bit-rate (non-real-time)
        abrQos(5),      -- available bit rate
        ubrQos(6)       -- unspecified bit rate
    }


ResourcePriority ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This TC describes an object which indicates the resource
            priority of the entire entry. Lower priorities indicate a
            lesser requirement to retain resources than higher priority
            values.  A probe is strongly encouraged, but not required,
            to honor all priority requests, all of the time.

            Objects declared with this TC should be contained within a
            conceptual control table entry. The indicated resource
            priority applies to the control entry and all internal data
            structures maintained on behalf of the control entry.

            A probe is expected to honor the priority requests in an
            implementation-dependent way. At this time, it is
            unspecified as to the priority ordering of entries with the
            same ResourcePriority value."
    SYNTAX INTEGER  {
        lowPriority(1),
        normalPriority(2),
        highPriority(3)
    }


ZeroBasedCounter64 ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    STATUS current





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 18]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    DESCRIPTION
            "This TC describes an object which counts events with the
            following semantics: objects of this type will be set to
            zero(0) on creation and will thereafter count appropriate
            events, wrapping back to zero(0) when the value 2^64 is
            reached.

            Provided that an application discovers the new object within
            the minimum time to wrap it can use the initial value as a
            delta since it last polled the table of which this object is
            part.  It is important for a management station to be aware

            of this minimum time and the actual time between polls, and
            to discard data if the actual time is too long or there is
            no defined minimum time.

            Typically this TC is used in tables where the INDEX space is
            constantly changing and/or the TimeFilter mechanism is in
            use."
    -- THIS IS BROKEN AND NEEDS TO BE CHANGED ASAP!
    -- For SNMPv2, a new type Unsigned64 is needed
    -- don't know what to do for SNMPv1 yet
    -- choices are OCTET STRING (SIZE(8)) using 2
    -- ZeroBasedCounter32 objects instead
    SYNTAX Counter64


























Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 19]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


   --
   -- Virtual Circuit Selection group  (vcSelect)
   --
   -- Defines the circuits to be included or excluded in
   -- a particular host or matrix collection
   --    vcSelectGroupTable
   --    pvcSelectTable
   --    svcSelectTable

vcSelectGroupTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF VcSelectGroupEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Controls the setup of virtual circuit selection criteria
            used on behalf of any collection associated with entries in
            this table (e.g. atmHostTable).

            This table allows pvcSelect and svcSelect entries with the
            same value of vcSelectGroupIndex to be grouped together to
            form selection criteria logical-OR expressions.

            Rules for combining and prioritizing the order of pvcSelect
            and svcSelect entries:

               Each pvcSelect or svcSelect entry is grouped together by
               its major index (vcSelectGroupIndex), and is evaluated in
               the order of its minor index (pvcSelectIndex or
               svcSelectIndex).

               Each successive pvcEntry defines a PVC to be included or
               excluded from the vcSelectGroup.  These are evaluated, in
               ascending order of pvcSelectIndex, to determine the PVC
               select criteria for this vcSelectGroup. Higher-indexed
               entries have precedence when resolving conflicts.  [TBD:
               More detail, Error checking and reporting]

               Each successive svcEntry defines a group of SVCs to be
               included or excluded from the vcSelectGroup, by masked
               ATM address. This mask identifies ATM addresses (calling
               or called party) that are using one or more SVCs
               identified by the probe (in an implementation-specific
               manner).

               Each entry is evaluated, in ascending order of





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 20]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


               svcSelectIndex, to determine the SVC select criteria for
               this vcSelectGroup. Higher-indexed entries have
               precedence when resolving conflicts.  [TBD: More detail
               on conflicts, error checking, and error reporting]

            Rationale: This table controls selection of the circuits to
            be monitored on behalf of one or more collections (e.g. host
            or matrix) performed by this probe."
    ::= { vcSelect 1 }

vcSelectGroupEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      VcSelectGroupEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A conceptual row in the vcSelectGroupTable.

            An example of the indexing of this entry is
            vcSelectGroupCreateTime.7"
    INDEX { vcSelectGroupIndex }
    ::= { vcSelectGroupTable 1 }

VcSelectGroupEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    vcSelectGroupIndex                Integer32,
    vcSelectGroupDescr                DisplayString,
    vcSelectGroupCreateTime           LastCreateTime,
    vcSelectGroupOwner                OwnerString,
    vcSelectGroupStatus               RowStatus
}

vcSelectGroupIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32 (1..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A unique index for this vcSelectGroupEntry."
    ::= { vcSelectGroupEntry 1 }

vcSelectGroupDescr  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      DisplayString (SIZE(0..64))
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An administratively-assigned descriptive label for this
            vcSelectGroup entry."





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 21]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    ::= { vcSelectGroupEntry 2 }

vcSelectGroupCreateTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      LastCreateTime
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of sysUpTime when this Group entry was activated.
            This can be used by the management station to ensure that
            the table has not been deleted and recreated between polls."
    ::= { vcSelectGroupEntry 3 }

vcSelectGroupOwner OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OwnerString
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The entity that configured this entry and is therefore
            using the resources assigned to it."
    ::= { vcSelectGroupEntry 4 }

vcSelectGroupStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this row.

            An entry may not exist in the active state unless all
            objects in the entry have an appropriate value.  All
            pvcSelectEntries and svcSelectEntries with a corresponding
            value of vcSelectGroupIndex must be in the active state
            before this object may be set to active(1).

            If this object is not equal to active(1), all associated
            data collections shall be deleted. That is, any associated
            collections in the atmHostTable or atmMatrixTable.

            Note that pvcSelectEntries and svcSelectEntries are not
            deleted when this entry leaves the active state."
    ::= { vcSelectGroupEntry 5 }









Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 22]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


-- pvcSelectTable
--
-- Defines the PVCs to be included or excluded in
-- a particular data collection (e.g. host or matrix)

pvcSelectTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF PvcSelectEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Controls the setup of PVC circuit selection criteria for
            the host and matrix groups.

            Rationale: This table controls selection of the virtual
            circuits to be monitored on behalf of one or more
            collections performed by this probe."
    ::= { vcSelect 2 }

pvcSelectEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      PvcSelectEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A conceptual row in the pvcSelectTable.

            An example of the indexing of this entry is
            pvcSelectCreateTime.7.2"
    INDEX { vcSelectGroupIndex, pvcSelectIndex }
    ::= { pvcSelectTable 1 }

PvcSelectEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    pvcSelectIndex              Integer32,
    pvcSelectIfIndex            IfIndex,
    pvcSelectVPI                Integer32,
    pvcSelectVCI                Integer32,
    pvcSelectInclude            TruthValue,
    pvcSelectCreateTime         LastCreateTime,
    pvcSelectOwner              OwnerString,
    pvcSelectStatus             RowStatus
}

pvcSelectIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32 (1..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 23]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    DESCRIPTION
            "A unique index for this pvcSelectEntry."
    ::= { pvcSelectEntry 1 }

pvcSelectIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IfIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The ifIndex value describing the ATM interface associated
            with this pvcSelectEntry.

            This object may not be modified if the associated instance
            of pvcSelectStatus is equal to active(1)."
    ::= { pvcSelectEntry 2 }

pvcSelectVPI OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The VPI value associated with this pvcSelectEntry.

            [TBD: wildcarding]

            This object may not be modified if the associated instance
            of pvcSelectStatus is equal to active(1)."
    ::= { pvcSelectEntry 3 }

pvcSelectVCI OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The VCI value associated with this pvcSelectEntry.

            [TBD: wildcarding]

            This object may not be modified if the associated instance
            of pvcSelectStatus is equal to active(1)."
    ::= { pvcSelectEntry 4 }

pvcSelectInclude OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-create





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 24]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This object controls whether the indicated PVC is included
            or excluded in the associated vcSelectGroup.

            If this object has the value true(1), the circuit indicated
            by this entry is included in the vcSelectGroup.

            If it has the value false(2), the circuit indicated by this
            entry is excluded from the vcSelectGroup.

            This object may not be modified if the associated instance
            of pvcSelectStatus is equal to active(1)."
    ::= { pvcSelectEntry 5 }

pvcSelectLastCreateTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     LastCreateTime
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of sysUpTime when this pvcSelect entry was
            activated.  This can be used by the management station to
            ensure that the table has not been deleted and recreated
            between polls."
    ::= { pvcSelectEntry 6 }

pvcSelectOwner OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OwnerString
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The entity that configured this entry and is therefore
            using the resources assigned to it."
    ::= { pvcSelectEntry 7 }

pvcSelectStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this row.

            An entry may not exist in the active state unless all
            objects in the entry have an appropriate value.






Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 25]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


            This object may not be modified if the associated instance
            of vcSelectGroupStatus is equal to active(1).

            If this object is not equal to active(1), all associated
            data collections shall be deleted. That is, any associated
            collections in the atmHostTable or atmMatrixTable."
    ::= { pvcSelectEntry 8 }


    -- svcSelectTable
    --
    -- Defines the SVCs to be included or excluded in
    -- a particular host or matrix collection

svcSelectTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF SvcSelectEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Controls the setup of SVC circuit selection criteria for
            the host and matrix groups.

            Rules for combining multiple svcSelectEntries within the
            same vcSelectGroup [TBD].

            [TBD -- Error conditions, conflict resolution]

            Rationale: This table controls selection of the circuits to
            be monitored on behalf of one or more collections (either
            host or matrix) performed by this probe."
    ::= { vcSelect 3 }

svcSelectEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SvcSelectEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A conceptual row in the svcSelectTable.

            An example of the indexing of this entry is
            svcSelectControlCreateTime.7.1"
    INDEX { vcSelectGroupIndex, svcSelectIndex }
    ::= { svcSelectTable 1 }

SvcSelectEntry ::= SEQUENCE {





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 26]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    svcSelectIndex              Integer32,
    svcSelectIfIndex            IfIndex,
    svcSelectAddr               AtmAddr,
    svcSelectAddrMask           AtmAddr,
    svcSelectInclude            TruthValue,
    svcSelectCreateTime         LastCreateTime,
    svcSelectOwner              OwnerString,
    svcSelectStatus             RowStatus
}

svcSelectIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32 (1..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A unique index for this svcSelectEntry."
    ::= { svcSelectEntry 1 }

svcSelectIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IfIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The ifIndex value describing the ATM interface associated
            with this svcSelectEntry. The SVCs are identified for this
            entry on this interface only.

            This object may not be modified if the associated instance
            of svcSelectStatus is equal to active(1)."
    ::= { svcSelectEntry 2 }

svcSelectAddr OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     AtmAddr
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This object describes the SVCs, selected by ATM
            address(es), identified by this svcSelectEntry. Note that
            only non-zero length variants of the AtmAddr are permitted
            in this table.

            If the associated svcSelectInclude instance is true(1), all
            cells transmitted on behalf of calling or called parties
            identified by the SVC-match-algorithm are included in the
            indicated vcSelectGroup.





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 27]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


            If the associated svcSelectInclude instance is false(2), all
            cells transmitted on behalf of calling or called parties
            identified by the SVC-match-algorithm are excluded from the
            indicated vcSelectGroup.

            The associated instance of svcSelectAddrMask must be the
            same type and length as this object.  Address types are
            determined by the length of this object, as defined in
            [ATM2-MIB].

               SVC-match-algorithm:

                  boolean  SVC-match-algorithm()
                  {
                     for (each corresponding bit in the calling-party or
                          called-party atmAddr, svcSelectAddr, and
                          svcSelectAddrMask objects)
                     {
                         if (svcSelectAddrMask-bit)
                            if (svcSelectAddr-bit ^ atmAddr-bit)
                               return(FALSE);
                     }
                     return(TRUE);
                  }

            Address-to-cell association is done in an implementation-
            specific manner, requiring examination of signaling
            information related to the SVCs described by this
            svcSelectEntry.

            This object may not be modified if the associated instance
            of svcSelectStatus is equal to active(1)."
    ::= { svcSelectEntry 3 }

svcSelectAddrMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     AtmAddr
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This object controls the SVC-match-algorithm performed on
            cells identified by this svcSelectEntry. This object must be
            the same exact type and length as the associated
            svcSelectAddr object.

            While executing the SVC-match-algorithm, each bit in the





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 28]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


            svcSelectAddrMask is examined. If the value is one, then the
            corresponding svcSelectAddr bit must match the calling or
            called party address bit. If the value is zero, then no test
            is done for this bit position.  Refer to the svcSelectAddr
            object description for more details on the SVC-match-
            algorithm.

            This object may not be modified if the associated instance
            of svcSelectStatus is equal to active(1)."
    ::= { svcSelectEntry 4 }

svcSelectInclude OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This object controls whether SVCs for the indicated
            addresses are included or excluded in the associated
            vcSelectGroup.

            If this object has the value true(1), then circuits
            indicated by this entry are included in the
            vcSelectionGroup.

            If this object has the value false(2), then circuits
            indicated by this entry are excluded from the
            vcSelectionGroup.

            This object may not be modified if the associated instance
            of svcSelectStatus is equal to active(1)."
    ::= { svcSelectEntry 5 }

svcSelectLastCreateTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     LastCreateTime
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of sysUpTime when this svcSelect entry was
            activated.  This can be used by the management station to
            ensure that the table has not been deleted and recreated
            between polls."
    ::= { svcSelectEntry 6 }

svcSelectOwner OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OwnerString





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 29]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The entity that configured this entry and is therefore
            using the resources assigned to it."
    ::= { svcSelectEntry 7 }

svcSelectStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this row.

            An entry may not exist in the active state unless all
            objects in the entry have an appropriate value.

            This object may not be modified if the associated instance
            of vcSelectGroupStatus is equal to active(1).

            If this object is not equal to active(1), all associated
            data collections shall be deleted. That is, any associated
            collections in the atmHostTable or atmMatrixTable."
    ::= { svcSelectEntry 8 }


























Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 30]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    --
    -- ATM Stats Group
    --
    -- Counts the total amount of traffic sent on behalf all ATM addresses
    -- discovered by the probe, according to associated vcSelectGroup
    -- criteria

atmStatsControlTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF AtmStatsControlEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A list of ATM basic statistic collection table control
            entries.  These entries will enable the collection of
            statistical totals for an entire vcSelectGroup."
    ::= { atmStats 1 }

atmStatsControlEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AtmStatsControlEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A conceptual row in the atmStatsControlTable.  Entries in
            this table are identified and indexed by the
            vcSelectGroupIndex object.  At most one atmStats collection
            is done per vcSelectGroup.

            An example of the indexing of this entry is
            atmStatsDroppedCells.1"
    INDEX { vcSelectGroupIndex }
    ::= { atmStatsControlTable 1 }

AtmStatsControlEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    atmStatsControlDroppedCells         Counter32,
    atmStatsControlHCDroppedCells       Counter64,
    atmStatsControlOwner                OwnerString,
    atmStatsControlStatus               RowStatus
}

atmStatsControlDroppedCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of cells which were received by the probe





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 31]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


            but for which the probe chose not to count in this
            collection for whatever reason.  Most often, this event
            occurs when the probe is out of some resources and decides
            to shed load from one or more collections.

            This count does not include cells that were not counted
            because they had errors."
    ::= { atmStatsControlEntry 1 }

atmStatsControlHCDroppedCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of cells which were received by the probe
            but for which the probe chose not to count in this
            collection for whatever reason.  Most often, this event
            occurs when the probe is out of some resources and decides
            to shed load from one or more collections.

            This count does not include cells that were not counted
            because they had errors."
    ::= { atmStatsControlEntry 2 }

atmStatsControlOwner OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OwnerString
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The entity that configured this entry and is therefore
            using the resources assigned to it."
    ::= { atmStatsControlEntry 3 }

atmStatsControlStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this atmStatsControlEntry.

            An entry may not exist in the active state unless all
            objects in the entry have an appropriate value.
            Specifically, the associated instance of vcSelectGroupStatus
            must be equal to active(1) before this object may be set to
            active(1).





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 32]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


            If this object is not equal to active(1), all associated
            entries in the atmStatsTable shall be deleted."
    ::= { atmStatsControlEntry 4 }















































Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 33]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


-- atmStatsTable
-- call and traffic basic statistics collected on behalf of specific
-- vcSelectGroups

atmStatsTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF atmStatsEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of statistical totals for all ATM host
            addresses that have been discovered on behalf of the
            vcSelectGroup associated with this entry."
    ::= { atmStats 2 }

atmStatsEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AtmStatsEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A conceptual row in the atmStatsTable.

            The vcSelectGroupIndex value in the index identifies the
            vcSelectGroup on whose behalf this entry was created.

            An example of the indexing of this entry is
            atmStatsP2pCells.8.28775.3"
    INDEX { vcSelectGroupIndex, atmStatsTimeMark, atmStatsQoS }
    ::= { atmStatsTable 1 }

AtmStatsEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    atmStatsTimeMark            TimeFilter,
    atmStatsQoS                 QoSIndex,
    atmStatsCreateTime          LastCreateTime,
    atmStatsP2pCells            Counter32,
    atmStatsP2mpCells           Counter32,
    atmStatsHCP2pCells          Counter64,
    atmStatsHCP2mpCells         Counter64,
    atmStatsNumP2pCalls         Counter32,
    atmStatsNumP2mpCalls        Counter32,
    atmStatsP2pConnectionTime   TimeStamp,
    atmStatsP2mpConnectionTime  TimeStamp
}

atmStatsTimeMark OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TimeFilter





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 34]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A TimeFilter for this entry.  See the TimeFilter textual
            convention in [RMON2-MIB] to see how this works."
    ::= { atmStatsEntry 1 }

atmStatsQoS OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      QoSIndex
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The quality of service classification for this entry.  See
            the QoSFilter textual convention for details and specific
            QoS values."
    ::= { atmStatsEntry 2 }

atmStatsCreateTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     LastCreateTime
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of sysUpTime when this entry was activated.  This
            can be used by the management station to ensure that the
            entry has not been deleted and recreated between polls."
    ::= { atmStatsEntry 3 }

atmStatsP2pCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of error-free cells detected on point-to-
            point circuits on behalf of this vcSelectGroup collection."
    ::= { atmStatsEntry 4 }

atmStatsP2mpCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of error-free cells detected on point-to-
            multipoint circuits on behalf of this vcSelectGroup
            collection."
 ::= { atmStatsEntry 5 }





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 35]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


atmStatsHCP2pCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of error-free cells detected on point-to-
            point circuits on behalf of this vcSelectGroup collection."
    ::= { atmStatsEntry 6 }

atmStatsHCP2mpCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of error-free cells detected on point-to-
            multipoint circuits on behalf of this vcSelectGroup
            collection."
    ::= { atmStatsEntry 7 }

atmStatsNumP2pCalls OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of calls detected on point-to-point
            circuits on behalf of this vcSelectGroup collection."
    ::= { atmStatsEntry 8 }

atmStatsNumP2mpCalls OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of calls detected on point-to-multipoint
            circuits on behalf of this vcSelectGroup collection."
    ::= { atmStatsEntry 9 }

atmStatsP2pConnectionTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The elapsed time of all calls identified by the associated
            instance of atmStatsNumP2pCalls." -- will this roll too fast
            to be useful?  -- to rollover in < 1 hour,  approx. 12000





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 36]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


            sustained, concurrent -- have to be active.
    ::= { atmStatsEntry 10 }

atmStatsP2mpConnectionTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The elapsed time of all calls identified by the associated
            instance of atmStatsNumP2mpCalls." -- will this roll too
            fast to be useful?  -- to rollover in < 1 hour,  approx.
            12000 sustained, concurrent -- have to be active.
    ::= { atmStatsEntry 11 }





































Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 37]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


--
-- ATM Host Group
--
-- Counts the amount of traffic sent on behalf of each ATM address
-- discovered by the probe, according to associated vcSelectGroup
-- criteria

atmHostControlTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF AtmHostControlEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A list of ATM host table control entries.

            These entries will enable the collection of ATM host
            information in the atmHostTable.

            Entries in the atmHostTable will be created on behalf of
            each entry in this table. A probe is required to support at
            most one atmHost collection per instance of an associated
            vcSelectGroup, therefore the table is indexed by the
            vcSelectGroupIndex.

            Default monitor-owned atmHostControl entries:
                [TBD] "
    ::= { atmHost 1 }

atmHostControlEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AtmHostControlEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A conceptual row in the atmHostControlTable.  Entries in
            this table are identified and indexed by the
            vcSelectGroupIndex object.  At most one atmHost collection
            is done per vcSelectGroup.

            An example of the indexing of this entry is
            atmHostControlInserts.1"
    INDEX { vcSelectGroupIndex }
    ::= { atmHostControlTable 1 }

AtmHostControlEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    atmHostControlInserts               Counter32,
    atmHostControlDeletes               Counter32,





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 38]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    atmHostControlMaxDesiredEntries     Integer32,
    atmHostControlPriority              ResourcePriority,
    atmHostControlDroppedCells          Counter32,
    atmHostControlHCDroppedCells        Counter64,
    atmHostControlOwner                 OwnerString,
    atmHostControlStatus                RowStatus
}

atmHostControlInserts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of times an atmHost entry has been inserted into
            the atmHost table.  If an entry is inserted, then deleted,
            and then inserted, this counter will be incremented by 2.

            To allow for efficient implementation strategies, agents may
            delay updating this object for short periods of time.  For
            example, an implementation strategy may allow internal data
            structures to differ from those visible via SNMP for short
            periods of time.  This counter may reflect the internal data
            structures for those short periods of time.

            Note that the table size can be determined by subtracting
            atmHostControlDeletes from atmHostControlInserts."
    ::= { atmHostControlEntry 1 }

atmHostControlDeletes OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of times an atmHost entry has been deleted from
            the atmHost table (for any reason).  If an entry is deleted,
            then inserted, and then deleted, this counter will be
            incremented by 2.

            To allow for efficient implementation strategies, agents may
            delay updating this object for short periods of time.  For
            example, an implementation strategy may allow internal data
            structures to differ from those visible via SNMP for short
            periods of time.  This counter may reflect the internal data
            structures for those short periods of time.






Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 39]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


            Note that the table size can be determined by subtracting
            atmHostControlDeletes from atmHostControlInserts."
    ::= { atmHostControlEntry 2 }

atmHostControlMaxDesiredEntries OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The maximum number of entries that are desired in the
            atmHostTable on behalf of this control entry. The probe will
            not create more than this number of associated entries in
            the table, but may choose to create fewer entries in this
            table for any reason including the lack of resources.

            If this object is set to a value less than the current
            number of entries, enough entries are chosen in an
            implementation-dependent manner and deleted so that the
            number of entries in the table equals the value of this
            object.

            If this value is set to -1, the probe may create any number
            of entries in this table.  If the associated
            atmHostControlStatus object is equal to active(1), this
            object may not be modified.

            This object may be used to control how resources are
            allocated on the probe for the various RMON functions."
    ::= { atmHostControlEntry 3 }

atmHostControlPriority OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ResourcePriority
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The priority this collection should be given to retain
            resources, in the event the probe must reclaim some
            resources in order to add new entries to an existing atmHost
            collection or add new collections of other types."
    DEFVAL { normalPriority(2) }
    ::= { atmHostControlEntry 4 }

atmHostControlDroppedCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 40]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of cells which were received by the probe
            but for which the probe chose not to count in this
            collection for whatever reason.  Most often, this event
            occurs when the probe is out of some resources and decides
            to shed load from one or more collections.

            This count does not include cells that were not counted
            because they had errors."
    ::= { atmHostControlEntry 5 }

atmHostControlHCDroppedCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of cells which were received by the probe
            but for which the probe chose not to count in this
            collection for whatever reason.  Most often, this event
            occurs when the probe is out of some resources and decides
            to shed load from one or more collections.

            This count does not include cells that were not counted
            because they had errors."
    ::= { atmHostControlEntry 6 }

atmHostControlOwner OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OwnerString
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The entity that configured this entry and is therefore
            using the resources assigned to it."
    ::= { atmHostControlEntry 7 }

atmHostControlStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this atmHostControlEntry.

            An entry may not exist in the active state unless all
            objects in the entry have an appropriate value.





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 41]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


            Specifically, the associated instances of
            atmHostControlMaxDesiredEntries, atmHostControlPriority, and
            vcSelectGroupStatus must be equal to active(1) before this
            object may be set to active(1).

            If this object is not equal to active(1), all associated
            entries in the atmHostTable shall be deleted."
    ::= { atmHostControlEntry 8 }










































Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 42]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


-- atmHostTable
-- call and traffic data collected on behalf of specific
-- vcSelectGroups

atmHostTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF AtmHostEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of statistics for a particular ATM host
            address that has been discovered on behalf of the
            vcSelectGroup associated with this entry.  Note that only
            non-zero length variants of the AtmAddr object are collected
            in this table.

            The probe will add to this table all addresses seen as the
            source or destination address in all cells identified by the
            associated vcSelectGroupEntry criteria."
    ::= { atmHost 2 }

atmHostEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AtmHostEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A conceptual row in the atmHostTable.

            The vcSelectGroupIndex value in the index identifies the
            vcSelectGroup on whose behalf this entry was created.

            An example of the indexing of this entry is
            atmHostInP2pCells.4.28375.20.<NSAP>.3"
    INDEX { vcSelectGroupIndex, atmHostTimeMark,
            atmHostAddress, atmHostQoS }
    ::= { atmHostTable 1 }

AtmHostEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    atmHostTimeMark             TimeFilter,
    atmHostAddress              AtmAddr,
    atmHostQos                  QoSIndex,
    atmHostCreateTime           LastCreateTime,
    atmHostInP2pCells           ZeroBasedCounter32,
    atmHostOutP2pCells          ZeroBasedCounter32,
    atmHostInP2mpCells          ZeroBasedCounter32,
    atmHostOutPm2pCells         ZeroBasedCounter32,





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 43]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    atmHostInHCP2pCells         ZeroBasedCounter64,
    atmHostOutHCP2pCells        ZeroBasedCounter64,
    atmHostInHCP2mpCells        ZeroBasedCounter64,
    atmHostOutHCPm2pCells       ZeroBasedCounter64,
    atmHostInNumP2pCalls        ZeroBasedCounter32,
    atmHostOutNumP2pCalls       ZeroBasedCounter32,
    atmHostInNumP2mpCalls       ZeroBasedCounter32,
    atmHostOutNumP2mpCalls      ZeroBasedCounter32,
    atmHostP2pConnectionTime    TimeStamp,
    atmHostP2mpConnectionTime   TimeStamp
}

atmHostTimeMark OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TimeFilter
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A TimeFilter for this entry.  See the TimeFilter textual
            convention in [RMON2-MIB] to see how this works."
    ::= { atmHostEntry 1 }

atmHostAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AtmAddr
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The ATM address for this atmHostEntry.

            This is represented as an octet string with specific
            semantics and length as identified by the AtmAddr textual
            convention."
    ::= { atmHostEntry 2 }

atmHostQoS OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      QoSIndex
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The quality of service classification for this entry.  See
            the QoSFilter textual convention for details and specific
            QoS values."
    ::= { atmHostEntry 3 }

atmHostCreateTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      LastCreateTime





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 44]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of sysUpTime when this entry was activated.  This
            can be used by the management station to ensure that the
            entry has not been deleted and recreated between polls."
    ::= { atmHostEntry 4 }

atmHostInP2pCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ZeroBasedCounter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of error-free cells detected on point-to-point
            circuits in which this ATM address was identified as the
            called party."
    ::= { atmHostEntry 5 }

atmHostOutP2pCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ZeroBasedCounter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of error-free cells detected on point-to-point
            circuits in which this ATM address was identified as the
            calling party."
    ::= { atmHostEntry 6 }

atmHostInP2mpCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ZeroBasedCounter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of error-free cells detected on point-to-
            multipoint circuits in which this ATM address was identified
            as the called party."
    ::= { atmHostEntry 7 }

atmHostOutP2mpCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ZeroBasedCounter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of error-free cells detected on point-to-
            multipoint circuits in which this ATM address was identified





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 45]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


            as the calling party."
    ::= { atmHostEntry 8 }

atmHostInHCP2pCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ZeroBasedCounter64
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of error-free cells detected on point-to-point
            circuits in which this ATM address was identified as the
            called party."
    ::= { atmHostEntry 9 }

atmHostOutHCP2pCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ZeroBasedCounter64
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of error-free cells detected on point-to-point
            circuits in which this ATM address Was identified as the
            calling party."
    ::= { atmHostEntry 10 }

atmHostInHCP2mpCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ZeroBasedCounter64
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of error-free cells detected on point-to-
            multipoint circuits in which this ATM address was identified
            as the called party."
    ::= { atmHostEntry 11 }

atmHostOutHCP2mpCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ZeroBasedCounter64
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of error-free cells detected on point-to-
            multipoint circuits in which this ATM address was identified
            as the calling party."
    ::= { atmHostEntry 12 }

atmHostInNumP2pCalls OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ZeroBasedCounter32





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 46]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of calls detected on point-to-point circuits in
            which this ATM address was identified as the called party."
    ::= { atmHostEntry 13 }

atmHostOutNumP2pCalls OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ZeroBasedCounter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of calls detected on point-to-point circuits in
            which this ATM address was identified as the calling party."
    ::= { atmHostEntry 14 }

atmHostInNumP2mpCalls OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ZeroBasedCounter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of calls detected on point-to-multipoint
            circuits in which this ATM address was identified as the
            called party."
    ::= { atmHostEntry 15 }

atmHostOutNumP2mpCalls OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ZeroBasedCounter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of calls detected on point-to-multipoint
            circuits in which this ATM address was identified as the
            calling party."
    ::= { atmHostEntry 16 }

atmHostP2pConnectionTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The elapsed time of all calls identified by the associated
            instances of atmHostInNumP2pCalls and
            atmHostOutNumP2pCalls."
    ::= { atmHostEntry 17 }





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 47]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


atmHostP2mpConnectionTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The elapsed time of all calls identified by the associated
            instances of atmHostInNumP2mpCalls and
            atmHostOutNumP2mpCalls."
    ::= { atmHostEntry 18 }









































Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 48]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


--
-- ATM HostTopN Group
--
-- Finds and reports the top traffic contributors,
-- according to associated vcSelectGroup criteria

atmHostTopNControlTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF AtmHostTopNControlEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A set of parameters that control the creation of a report
            of the top N host entries according to a selected metric."
    ::= { atmHost 3 }

atmHostTopNControlEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AtmHostTopNControlEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A conceptual row in the atmHostTopNControlTable.

            An example of the indexing of this table is
            atmHostTopNControlDuration.3.1"
    INDEX { vcSelectGroupIndex, atmHostTopNControlIndex }
    ::= { atmHostTopNControlTable 1 }

AtmHostTopNControlEntry    ::= SEQUENCE {
    atmHostTopNControlIndex             Integer32,
    atmHostTopNControlRateBase          INTEGER,
    atmHostTopNControlTimeRemaining     Integer32,
    atmHostTopNControlGeneratedReports  Counter32,
    atmHostTopNControlDuration          Integer32,
    atmHostTopNControlRequestedSize     Integer32,
    atmHostTopNControlGrantedSize       Integer32,
    atmHostTopNControlStartTime         TimeStamp,
    atmHostTopNControlOwner             OwnerString,
    atmHostTopNControlStatus            RowStatus
}

atmHostTopNControlIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32 (1..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 49]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


            "An index that is used to uniquely identify an entry in the
            atmHostTopNControlTable.  Each such entry defines one top N
            report prepared on behalf of one atmHost entry and one
            vcSelectGroup entry."
    ::= { atmHostTopNControlEntry 1 }

atmHostTopNControlRateBase OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX INTEGER {
        atmHostTopNInP2pCells(1),
        atmHostTopNOutP2pCells(2),
        atmHostTopNInP2mpCells(3),
        atmHostTopNOutP2mpCells(4),
        atmHostTopNInNumP2pCalls(5),
        atmHostTopNOutNumP2pCalls(6),
        atmHostTopNInNumP2mpCalls(7),
        atmHostTopNOutNumP2mpCalls(8),
        atmHostTopNP2pConnectionTime(9),
        atmHostTopNP2mpConnectionTime(10)
    }
    MAX-ACCESS          read-create
    STATUS              current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The variable for each atmHost entry that the
            atmHostTopNEntries are sorted by.

            This object may not be modified if the associated
            atmHostTopNControl   STATUS object is equal to active(1)."
    ::= { atmHostTopNControlEntry 2 }

atmHostTopNControlTimeRemaining OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of seconds left in the report currently being
            collected.  When this object is modified by the management
            station, a new collection is started, possibly aborting a
            currently running report.  The new value is used as the
            requested duration of this report, and is immediately loaded
            into the associated atmHostTopNControlDuration object.  When
            the report finishes, the probe will automatically start
            another collection with the same initial value of
            atmHostTopNControlTimeRemaining.  Thus the management
            station may simply read the resulting reports repeatedly,
            checking the startTime and duration each time to ensure that





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 50]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


            a report was not missed or that the report parameters were
            not changed.

            While the value of this object is non-zero, it decrements by
            one per second until it reaches zero.  At the time that this
            object decrements to zero, the report is made accessible in
            the atmHostTopNTable, overwriting any report that may be
            there.

            When this object is modified by the management station, any
            associated entries in the atmHostTopNTable shall be
            deleted."
    DEFVAL { 1800 }
    ::= { atmHostTopNControlEntry 3 }

atmHostTopNControlGeneratedReports OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of reports that have been generated by this
            entry."
    ::= { atmHostTopNControlEntry 4 }

atmHostTopNControlDuration OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of seconds that this report has collected during
            the last sampling interval.

            When the associated atmHostTopNControlTimeRemaining object
            is set, this object shall be set by the probe to the same
            value and shall not be modified until the next time the
            atmHostTopNControlTimeRemaining is set.

            This value shall be zero if no reports have been requested
            for this atmHostTopNControlEntry."
    ::= { atmHostTopNControlEntry 5 }

atmHostTopNControlRequestedSize OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 51]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    DESCRIPTION
            "The maximum number of host entries requested for this
            report.

            When this object is created or modified, the probe should
            set atmHostTopNControlGrantedSize as closely to this object
            as is possible for the particular probe implementation and
            available resources."
    DEFVAL { 150 }
    ::= { atmHostTopNControlEntry 6 }

atmHostTopNControlGrantedSize OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The maximum number of host entries in this report.

            When the associated atmHostTopNControlRequestedSize object
            is created or modified, the probe should set this object as
            closely to the requested value as is possible for the
            particular implementation and available resources. The probe
            must not lower this value except as a result of a set to the
            associated atmHostTopNControlRequestedSize object.

            For example, if the value of atmHostTopNControlRateBase is
            equal to atmHostTopNP2pCells(1), when the next topN report
            is generated, host entries with the highest value of
            atmHostP2pCells shall be placed in this table in decreasing
            order of this rate until there is no more room or until
            there are no more host entries. Each atmHostP2pCells value
            is copied to the associated atmHostTopNRate object.

            It is an implementation-specific matter how entries with the
            same value are sorted.  It is also an implementation-
            specific matter as to whether or not zero-valued entries are
            available."
    ::= { atmHostTopNControlEntry 7 }

atmHostTopNControlStartTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of sysUpTime when this top N report was last





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 52]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


            started.  In other words, this is the time that the
            associated atmHostTopNControlTimeRemaining object was
            modified to start the requested report or the time the
            report was last automatically (re)started.

            This object may be used by the management station to
            determine if a report was missed or not."
    ::= { atmHostTopNControlEntry 8 }

atmHostTopNControlOwner OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OwnerString
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The entity that configured this entry and is therefore
            using the resources assigned to it."
    ::= { atmHostTopNControlEntry 9 }

atmHostTopNControlStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this atmHostTopNControlEntry.

            An entry may not exist in the active state unless all
            objects in the entry have an appropriate value.

            If this object is not equal to active(1), all associated
            entries in the atmHostTopNTable shall be deleted by the
            agent."
    ::= { atmHostTopNControlEntry 10 }


















Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 53]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


--
-- atmHostTopNTable
--
atmHostTopNTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF AtmHostTopNEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A set of statistics for those network layer matrix entries
            that have counted the highest number of octets or packets."
    ::= { atmHost 4 }

atmHostTopNEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AtmHostTopNEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A conceptual row in the atmHostTopNTable.

            The atmHostTopNControlIndex value in the index identifies
            the atmHostTopNControlEntry on whose behalf this entry was
            created.

            An example of the indexing of this table is
            atmHostTopNAddress.1.3.10"
    INDEX { vcSelectGroupIndex, atmHostTopNControlIndex,
            atmHostTopNIndex }
    ::= { atmHostTopNTable 1 }

AtmHostTopNEntry    ::= SEQUENCE {
    atmHostTopNIndex            Integer32,
    atmHostTopNAddress          AtmAddr,
    atmHostTopNRate             Integer32
    -- what to do about HCRate?? Need the SMI to support Integer64!
}

atmHostTopNIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32 (1..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An index that uniquely identifies an entry in the
            atmHostTopNTable among those in the same report.  This index
            is between 1 and N, where N is the number of entries in this
            report.





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 54]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


            Each host in the selected hostTable, for the report
            interval, is ranked in descending order of the metric
            identified by the atmHostTopNRate object.

            For example, if the value of atmHostTopNControlRateBase is
            equal to atmHostTopNP2pCells(1), increasing values of
            atmHostTopNIndex shall be assigned to entries with
            decreasing delta values of atmHostP2pCells (for the report
            interval), until index N is assigned or there are no more
            atmHostTopNEntries."
    ::= { atmHostTopNEntry 1 }

atmHostTopNAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AtmAddr
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The ATM address of this host. Only non-zero length variants
            of AtmAddr textual convention are allowed in this table."
    ::= { atmHostTopNEntry 2 }

atmHostTopNRate OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of the ranked metric for this host, for this
            report.

            If the associated value of atmHostTopNRateBase is equal to
            atmHostTopNInP2pCells(1), then this object is assigned the
            delta value of the atmHostInP2pCells object during this
            report interval.

            If the associated value of atmHostTopNRateBase is equal to
            atmHostTopNOutP2pCells(2), then this object is assigned the
            delta value of the atmHostOutP2pCells object during this
            report interval.

            If the associated value of atmHostTopNRateBase is equal to
            atmHostTopNInP2mpCells(3), then this object is assigned the
            delta value of the atmHostInP2mpCells object during this
            report interval.

            If the associated value of atmHostTopNRateBase is equal to





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 55]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


            atmHostTopNOutP2mpCells(4), then this object is assigned the
            delta value of the atmHostOutP2mpCells object during this
            report interval.

            If the associated value of atmHostTopNRateBase is equal to
            atmHostTopNInNumP2pCalls(5), then this object is assigned
            the delta value of the atmHostInNumP2pCalls object during
            this report interval.

            If the associated value of atmHostTopNRateBase is equal to
            atmHostTopNOutNumP2pCalls(6), then this object is assigned
            the delta value of the atmHostOutNumP2pCalls object during
            this report interval.

            If the associated value of atmHostTopNRateBase is equal to
            atmHostTopNInNumP2mpCalls(7), then this object is assigned
            the delta value of the atmHostInNumP2mpCalls object during
            this report interval.

            If the associated value of atmHostTopNRateBase is equal to
            atmHostTopNOutNumP2mpCalls(8), then this object is assigned
            the delta value of the atmHostOutNumP2mpCalls object during
            this report interval.

            If the associated value of atmHostTopNRateBase is equal to
            atmHostTopNP2pConnectionTime(9), then this object is
            assigned the delta value of the atmHostP2pConnectionTime
            object during this report interval.

            If the associated value of atmHostTopNRateBase is equal to
            atmHostTopNP2mpConnectionTime(10), then this object is
            assigned the delta value of the atmHostP2mpConnectionTime
            object during this report interval."
    ::= { atmHostTopNEntry 3 }
















Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 56]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


--
-- ATM Matrix Group
--
-- Counts the amount of traffic sent on behalf of each source
-- and destination ATM address discovered by the probe,
-- according to associated vcSelectGroup criteria

atmMatrixControlTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF AtmMatrixControlEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A list of ATM matrix table control entries.

            These entries will enable the collection of ATM matrix
            information in the atmMatrixTable.

            Entries in the atmMatrixTable will be created on behalf of
            each entry in this table. A probe is required to support at
            most one atmMatrix collection per instance of an associated
            vcSelectGroup, therefore the table is indexed by the
            vcSelectGroupIndex.

            Default monitor-owned atmMatrixControl entries:
                            [TBD]"
    ::= { atmMatrix 1 }

atmMatrixControlEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AtmMatrixControlEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A conceptual row in the atmMatrixControlTable.  Entries in
            this table are identified and indexed by the
            vcSelectGroupIndex object.  At most one atmMatrix collection
            is done per vcSelectGroup.

            An example of the indexing of this entry is
            atmMatrixControlInserts.1"
    INDEX { vcSelectGroupIndex }
    ::= { atmMatrixControlTable 1 }

AtmMatrixControlEntry    ::= SEQUENCE {
    atmMatrixControlInserts             Counter32,
    atmMatrixControlDeletes             Counter32,





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 57]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    atmMatrixControlMaxDesiredEntries   Integer32,
    atmMatrixControlPriority            ResourcePriority,
    atmMatrixControlDroppedCells        Counter32,
    atmMatrixControlHCDroppedCells      Counter64,
    atmMatrixControlOwner               OwnerString,
    atmMatrixControlStatus              RowStatus
}

atmMatrixControlInserts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of times an atmMatrix entry has been inserted
            into the atmMatrix table.  If an entry is inserted, then
            deleted, and then inserted, this counter will be incremented
            by 2.

            To allow for efficient implementation strategies, agents may
            delay updating this object for short periods of time.  For
            example, an implementation strategy may allow internal data
            structures to differ from those visible via SNMP for short
            periods of time.  This counter may reflect the internal data
            structures for those short periods of time.

            Note that the table size can be determined by subtracting
            atmMatrixControlDeletes from atmMatrixControlInserts."
    ::= { atmMatrixControlEntry 1 }

atmMatrixControlDeletes OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of times an atmMatrix entry has been deleted
            from the atmMatrix table (for any reason).  If an entry is
            deleted, then inserted, and then deleted, this counter will
            be incremented by 2.

            To allow for efficient implementation strategies, agents may
            delay updating this object for short periods of time.  For
            example, an implementation strategy may allow internal data
            structures to differ from those visible via SNMP for short
            periods of time.  This counter may reflect the internal data
            structures for those short periods of time.





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 58]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


            Note that the table size can be determined by subtracting
            atmMatrixControlDeletes from atmMatrixControlInserts."
    ::= { atmMatrixControlEntry 2 }

atmMatrixControlMaxDesiredEntries OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The maximum number of entries that are desired in the
            atmMatrixTable on behalf of this control entry. The probe
            will not create more than this number of associated entries
            in the table, but may choose to create fewer entries in this
            table for any reason including the lack of resources.

            If this object is set to a value less than the current
            number of entries, enough entries are chosen in an
            implementation-dependent manner and deleted so that the
            number of entries in the table equals the value of this
            object.

            If this value is set to -1, the probe may create any number
            of entries in this table.  If the associated
            atmMatrixControl   STATUS object is equal to active(1), this
            object may not be modified.

            This object may be used to control how resources are
            allocated on the probe for the various RMON functions."
    ::= { atmMatrixControlEntry 3 }

atmMatrixControlPriority OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ResourcePriority
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The priority this collection should be given to retain
            resources, in the event the probe must reclaim some
            resources in order to add new entries to an existing
            atmMatrix collection or add new collections of other types."
    DEFVAL { normalPriority(2) }
    ::= { atmMatrixControlEntry 4 }

atmMatrixControlDroppedCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 59]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of cells which were received by the probe
            but for which the probe chose not to count in this
            collection for whatever reason.  Most often, this event
            occurs when the probe is out of some resources and decides
            to shed load from one or more collections.

            This count does not include cells that were not counted
            because they had errors."
    ::= { atmMatrixControlEntry 5 }

atmMatrixControlHCDroppedCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
                "The total number of cells which were received by the
            probe but for which the probe chose not to count in this
            collection for whatever reason.  Most often, this event
            occurs when the probe is out of some resources and decides
            to shed load from one or more collections.

            This count does not include cells that were not counted
            because they had errors."
    ::= { atmMatrixControlEntry 6 }

atmMatrixControlOwner OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OwnerString
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The entity that configured this entry and is therefore
            using the resources assigned to it."
    ::= { atmMatrixControlEntry 7 }

 atmMatrixControlStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this atmMatrixControlEntry.

            An entry may not exist in the active state unless all
            objects in the entry have an appropriate value.





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 60]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


            Specifically, the associated instances of
            atmMatrixControlMaxDesiredEntries, atmMatrixControlPriority,
            and vcSelectGroup   STATUS must be equal to active(1) before
            this object may be set to active(1).

            If this object is not equal to active(1), all associated
            entries in the atmMatrixTable shall be deleted."
    ::= { atmMatrixControlEntry 8 }










































Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 61]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


-- atmMatrixTable
-- call and traffic data collected on behalf of specific
-- vcSelectGroups

atmMatrixTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF AtmMatrixEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of statistics for a particular ATM host
            address that has been discovered on behalf of the
            vcSelectGroup associated with this entry.  Note that only
            non-zero length variants of the AtmAddr object are collected
            in this table.

            The probe will add to this table all addresses seen as the
            source or destination address in all cells identified by the
            associated vcSelectGroupEntry criteria."
    ::= { atmMatrix 2 }

atmMatrixEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AtmMatrixEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A conceptual row in the atmMatrixTable.

            The vcSelectGroupIndex value in the index identifies the
            vcSelectGroup on whose behalf this entry was created.

            An example of the indexing of this entry is
            atmMatrixInP2pCells.4.28980.20.<NSAP>.20.<NSAP>.3"
    INDEX { vcSelectGroupIndex, atmMatrixTimeMark,
            atmMatrixCallingAddress, atmMatrixCalled,
            atmMatrixQoS }
    ::= { atmMatrixTable 1 }

AtmMatrixEntry    ::= SEQUENCE {
    atmMatrixTimeMark           TimeFilter,
    atmMatrixCallingAddress     AtmAddr,
    atmMatrixCalledAddress      AtmAddr,
    atmMatrixQos                QoSIndex,
    atmMatrixCreateTime         LastCreateTime,
    atmMatrixP2pCells           ZeroBasedCounter32,
    atmMatrixP2mpCells          ZeroBasedCounter32,





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 62]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    atmMatrixHCP2pCells         ZeroBasedCounter64,
    atmMatrixHCP2mpCells        ZeroBasedCounter64,
    atmMatrixNumP2pCalls        ZeroBasedCounter32,
    atmMatrixNumP2mpCalls       ZeroBasedCounter32,
    atmMatrixP2pConnectionTime  TimeStamp,
    atmMatrixP2mpConnectionTime TimeStamp
}

atmMatrixTimeMark OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TimeFilter
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A TimeFilter for this entry.  See the TimeFilter textual
            convention in [RMON2-MIB] to see how this works."
    ::= { atmMatrixEntry 1 }

atmMatrixCallingAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AtmAddr
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The calling party ATM address for this atmMatrixEntry.

            This is represented as an octet string with specific
            semantics and length as identified by the AtmAddr textual
            convention."
    ::= { atmMatrixEntry 2 }

atmMatrixCalledAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AtmAddr
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The called party ATM address for this atmMatrixEntry.

            This is represented as an octet string with specific
            semantics and length as identified by the AtmAddr textual
            convention."
    ::= { atmMatrixEntry 3 }

atmMatrixQos OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      QoSIndex
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 63]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


    DESCRIPTION
            "The quality of service classification for this entry.  See
            the QoSFilter textual convention for details and specific
            QoS values."
    ::= { atmMatrixEntry 4 }

atmMatrixCreateTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      LastCreateTime
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of sysUpTime when this entry was activated.  This
            can be used by the management station to ensure that the
            entry has not been deleted and recreated between polls."
    ::= { atmMatrixEntry 5 }

 atmMatrixP2pCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ZeroBasedCounter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of error-free cells detected on point-to-point
            circuits in which these ATM addresses were identified as the
            calling and called parties."
    ::= { atmMatrixEntry 6 }

atmMatrixP2mpCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ZeroBasedCounter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of error-free cells detected on point-to-
            multipoint circuits in which these ATM addresses were
            identified as the calling and called parties."
    ::= { atmMatrixEntry 7 }

atmMatrixHCP2pCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ZeroBasedCounter64
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of error-free cells detected on point-to-point
            circuits in which these ATM addresses were identified as the
            calling and called parties."
    ::= { atmMatrixEntry 8 }





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 64]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


atmMatrixHCP2mpCells OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ZeroBasedCounter64
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of error-free cells detected on point-to-
            multipoint circuits in which these ATM addresses were
            identified as the calling and called parties."
    ::= { atmMatrixEntry 9 }

atmMatrixNumP2pCalls OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ZeroBasedCounter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of calls detected on point-to-point circuits in
            which these ATM addresses were identified as the calling and
            called parties."
    ::= { atmMatrixEntry 10 }

atmMatrixNumP2mpCalls OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ZeroBasedCounter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of calls detected on point-to-multipoint
            circuits in which these ATM addresses were identified as the
            calling and called parties."
    ::= { atmMatrixEntry 11 }

atmMatrixP2pConnectionTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The elapsed time of all calls identified by the associated
            instance of atmMatrixNumP2pCalls."
    ::= { atmMatrixEntry 12 }

atmMatrixP2mpConnectionTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The elapsed time of all calls identified by the associated





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 65]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


            instance of atmMatrixNumP2mpCalls."
    ::= { atmMatrixEntry 13 }


 -- TBD: atmMatrixTopN group













































Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 66]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


 -- Conformance Macros

atmRmonMIBCompliances   OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { atmRmonConformance 1 }
atmRmonMIBGroups        OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { atmRmonConformance 2 }


atmRmonMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Describes the requirements for conformance to the ATM-RMON
            MIB.

            TBD: separate conformance statements with and without 64 bit
            counters."
    MODULE  -- this module
    MANDATORY-GROUPS {  vcSelectGroup,
                        atmStatsGroup,
                        atmHostGroup,
                        atmMatrixGroup }
    ::= { atmRmonMIBCompliances 1 }

vcSelectGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {   vcSelectGroupDescr, vcSelectGroupCreateTime,
                vcSelectGroupOwner, vcSelectGroupStatus,
                pvcSelectIfIndex,  pvcSelectVPI,
                pvcSelectVCI,  pvcSelectInclude,
                pvcSelectCreateTime, pvcSelectOwner,
                pvcSelectStatus, svcSelectIndex,
                svcSelectIfIndex, svcSelectAddr,
                svcSelectAddrMask, svcSelectInclude,
                svcSelectCreateTime, svcSelectOwner,
                svcSelectStatus }
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Selects the virtual circuits that should be monitored as
            part of a specific collection-group."
    ::= { atmRmonMIBGroups 1 }

atmStatsGroup OBJECT-GROUP
          OBJECTS { atmStatsControlDroppedCells,
           atmStatsControlHCDroppedCells,
           atmStatsControlOwner,
           atmStatsControlStatus,
           atmStatsCreateTime,
           atmStatsP2pCells,





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 67]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


           atmStatsP2mpCells,
           atmStatsHCP2pCells,
           atmStatsHCP2mpCells,
           atmStatsNumP2pCalls,
           atmStatsNumP2mpCalls,
           atmStatsP2pConnectionTime,
           atmStatsP2mpConnectionTime  }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Counts the basic statistics for collections on behalf of
            particular vcSelectGroup collections."
    ::= { atmRmonMIBGroups 2 }

atmHostGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
           atmHostControlInserts,
           atmHostControlDeletes,
           atmHostControlMaxDesiredEntries,
           atmHostControlPriority,
           atmHostControlDroppedCells,
           atmHostControlHCDroppedCells,
           atmHostControlOwner,
           atmHostControlStatus,
           atmHostCreateTime,
           atmHostInP2pCells, atmHostOutP2pCells,
           atmHostInP2mpCells, atmHostOutPm2pCells,
           atmHostInHCP2pCells, atmHostOutHCP2pCells,
           atmHostInHCP2mpCells, atmHostOutHCPm2pCells,
           atmHostInNumP2pCalls, atmHostOutNumP2pCalls,
           atmHostInNumP2mpCalls, atmHostOutNumP2mpCalls,
           atmHostP2pConnectionTime,
           atmHostP2mpConnectionTime,
           atmHostTopNControlRateBase,
           atmHostTopNControlTimeRemaining,
           atmHostTopNControlGeneratedReports,
           atmHostTopNControlDuration,
           atmHostTopNControlRequestedSize,
           atmHostTopNControlGrantedSize,
           atmHostTopNControlStartTime,
           atmHostTopNControlOwner,
           atmHostTopNControl   STATUS,
           atmHostTopNAddress, atmHostTopNRate }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Counts the amount of traffic sent from and to each ATM





Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 68]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


            address discovered by the probe, on behalf of particular
            vcSelectGroup collections."
    ::= { atmRmonMIBGroups 3 }

atmMatrixGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { atmMatrixControlInserts,
         atmMatrixControlDeletes,
         atmMatrixControlMaxDesiredEntries,
         atmMatrixControlPriority,
         atmMatrixControlDroppedCells,
         atmMatrixControlHCDroppedCells,
         atmMatrixControlOwner,
         atmMatrixControlStatus,
         atmMatrixCreateTime,
         atmMatrixP2pCells,
         atmMatrixP2mpCells,
         atmMatrixHCP2pCells,
         atmMatrixHCP2mpCells,
         atmMatrixNumP2pCalls,
         atmMatrixNumP2mpCalls,
         atmMatrixP2pConnectionTime,
         atmMatrixP2mpConnectionTime  }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Counts the amount of traffic sent between each pair of ATM
            addresses discovered by the probe, on behalf of particular
            vcSelectGroup collections."
    ::= { atmRmonMIBGroups 4 }

END




















Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 69]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


5.  Acknowledgements

The authors wish to thank the following people for their comments and
contributions in the development of this document:

          Ralph Beck
          Net2Net Corporation
          ralphb@net2net.com

          Robin A. Iddon
          AXON Networks, Inc.
          robini@axon.com

          Karen Sage
          NETSYS Technologies, Inc.
          karens@netsystech.com

          Anil Singhal
          Frontier Software Development, Inc.
          anil@frontier.com

          King Won
          Network General Corporation
          wonk@ngc.com



























Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 70]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


6.  References

[1]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, "Structure of Management Information for version 2
     of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902,
     January 1996.

[2]  McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II", STD 17,
     RFC 1213, March 1991.

[3]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin, "Simple Network
     Management Protocol", RFC 1157, May 1990.

[4]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, "Protocol Operations for version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

[5]  S. Waldbusser, "Remote Network Monitoring MIB", RFC 1757, Carnegie
     Mellon University, February 1995.

[6]  S. Waldbusser, "Token Ring Extensions to the Remote Network
     Monitoring MIB", RFC 1513, Carnegie Mellon University, September
     1993.

[7]  S. Waldbusser, "Remote Network Monitoring MIB (RMON-2)", draft-
     ietf-rmonmib-rmon2-03.txt, International Network Services, January
     1996.

[8]  Bierman, A., Iddon, R., "RMON Protocol Identifiers", draft-ietf-
     rmonmib-rmonprot-01.txt, Bierman Consulting, AXON Networks, Inc.,
     January 1996.

[9]  Ahmed, M., and K. Tesink, Editors, "Definitions of Managed Objects
     for ATM Management Version 8.0 using SMIv2", RFC 1695, Bell
     Communications Research, August 1994.

[10] Ly, F., Noto, M., Smith, A., Tesink, K., "Definitions of
     Supplemental Managed Objects for ATM Management", draft-ietf-
     atommib-atm2-05.txt, Bay Networks, Bell Communications Research,
     February 1996.









Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 71]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


7.  Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.


8.  Authors' Addresses

     Andy Bierman
     Bierman Consulting
     1200 Sagamore Lane
     Ventura, CA 93001
     Phone: 805-648-2028
     Email: abierman@west.net

     Keith McCloghrie
     Cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive
     San Jose, CA 95134
     Phone: 408-526-5260
     Email: kzm@cisco.com






























Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 72]





Draft                        ATM-RMON MIB                  February 1996


Table of Contents


1 Introduction ....................................................    2
1.1 The SNMP Network Management Framework .........................    2
1.2 Object Definitions ............................................    2
2 Overview ........................................................    3
2.1 RMON Resource Sharing Model ...................................    3
2.2 Relationship to Existing MIBs .................................    4
2.2.1 RMON ........................................................    4
2.2.2 TR-RMON .....................................................    5
2.2.3 RMON-2 MIB ..................................................    5
2.2.4 RMON-2 Protocol Identifiers .................................    6
2.2.5 ATOM MIB ....................................................    6
2.2.6 ATOM Supplemental MIB .......................................    6
2.3 ATM-RMON Functional Requirements ..............................    6
2.3.1 Collection Perspective ......................................    7
2.3.2 Cell Collection Requirements ................................    9
2.3.3 Frame Collection Requirements ...............................   10
2.4 ATM-RMON Design Goals .........................................   10
2.4.1 Data Reduction ..............................................   11
2.4.1.1 Pre-collection Data Reduction .............................   11
2.4.1.2 Post-collection Data Reduction ............................   12
2.4.2 Collection Source Issues ....................................   12
3 MIB Proposal ....................................................   14
3.1 MIB Structure .................................................   14
4 Definitions .....................................................   16
5 Acknowledgements ................................................   70
6 References ......................................................   71
7 Security Considerations .........................................   72
8 Authors' Addresses ..............................................   72



















Bierman/McCloghrie      Expires August 23, 1996                [Page 73]


