
Network Working Group                           Philip J. Nessser II
                                                              Editor
draft-ietf-2000-issue-00.txt	          Nesser & Nesser Consulting
Internet Draft                                             July 1997


        The Internet and the Millenium Problem (Year 2000)

Status of this Memo

   This document is an Internet Draft. Internet Drafts are working
   documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its Areas,
   and its Working Groups. Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet Drafts.

   Internet Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
   months. Internet Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by
   Internet Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
   months. Internet Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by
   other documents at any time. It is not appropriate to use Internet
   Drafts as reference material or to cite them other than as a "working
   draft" or "work in progress".

   Please check the I-D abstract listing contained in each Internet
   Draft directory to learn the current status of this or any other
   Internet Draft.



Abstract

   The Year 2000 Working Group(WG) has conducted an investigation into
   the millenium problem as it regards Internet related protocols.
   This investigation only targeted the protocols as documented in the
   Request For Comments Series (RFCs).  This investigation discovered
   little reason for concern with regards to the functionality of the
   protocols.  A few minor cases of older implementations still using
   two digit years (ala RFC 850) were discovered, but almost all
   Internet protocols were given a clean bill of health.  Several cases
   of "period" problems were discussed where a time field would "roll
   over" as the size of field was reached.  In particular, there are
   several protocols which have 32 bit signed integer representations
   of the number of seconds since January 1, 1970 which will turn
   negative at Tue Jan 19 03:14:07 GMT 2038.  Areas whose protocols
   will be effected by such problems have been notified so that new
   revisions will remove this limitation.

Introduction


   According to the trade press billions of dollars will be spend the
   upcoming three years on the year 2000 problem, also called the
   millenium problem (though the third millenium will only start in
   2001). This problem consists of the fact that many software packages
   and some protocols use a two digit field for the year in a date
   field. Most of the problems seem to be in administrative and
   financial programs, or in the hardcoded microcomputers found in
   electronic equipment.  A lot of organizations are now starting to
   make an inventory of which software and tools they use will suffer
   from the millenium problem.

   ..and the Internet 

   With the increasing popularity of the Internet, more and more
   organizations start to use the Internet as a serious business tool.
   This means that most organizations will want to analyse the millenium
   problems due to the use of Internet protocols and popular Internet
   software. In the trade press the first articles suggest that the
   Internet will collapse at midnight the 31st of december 1999.

   To counter these suggestions (that are obviously wrong) and to avoid
   that all over the Internet people will redo the same inventory over and
   over again the WG is to make an inventory of all important Internet
   protocols and their most popular implementations with respect to the
   millenium problem. Only software and protocols directly related to the
   Internet will be considered.

   The editor of this document would like to acknowledge the
   critical contributions of the follow for direct performance of
   research and the provision of text: Alex Latzko, Robert Elz, Erik
   Huizer, Gillian Greenwood, Barbara Jennings, R.E. (Robert) Moore,
   David Mills, Lynn Kubinec, Chris Newman, Erik-Jan Bos, Paul
   Hoffman, and Rick H. Wesson.  The pace with which this group has
   operated has only been achievable by the intimate familiarity of
   the contributors with the protocols and ready access to the
   collective knowledge of the IETF.



Disclaimer

   This RFC does not pretend to be complete.  It is a best effort
attempt to do an analysis of hundreds of protocols.  Organizations
should not attempt to claim any legitimacy or approval as a result
of this investigation.  Any proposed solutions are only that:
proposed.  Formal engineering should take place before any solution
is adopted.  The efforts have concentrated on the identification of
potential problems, rather than solutions.  


Types of Year 2000 Problems

   o Description of the year 2000 problems and when they will occur 


Methodology

   The first task was dividing the types of RFC's into logical
   groups rather than the strict numeric publishing order.  Fifteen
   specific areas were identified.  They are: "Autoconfiguration" ,
   "Directory Services", "Disk Sharing", "Games and Chat" ,"Information
   Services & File Transfer", "Internet & Network Layer", "Mail",
   "NTP", "Name Serving", "Network Management", "News", "Real Time
   Services", "Routing", "Security", and "Virtual Terminal".  In
   addition to these categories many hundreds of RFC's were immediately
   eliminated because of the type of content.  That is not to say that
   all Informational RFC's were not considered, many did contain some
   technical content or overview which demanded scrutiny.  

Each area was assigned to a team for investigation.  Although each
team used whatever additional investigation techniques which seemed
appropriate (including completely reading each RFC, and in some
cases the source code for the reference implementation) at minimum
each team used an automatic scanning system to search for the
following items (case insensitively) in each RFC:

     - date
     - GMT
     - UTCTime
     - year
     - yy (that is not part of yyyy)
     - two-digit, 2-digit, 2digit
     - century
     - 1900 & 2000

Note that all of these strings except "UTCTime" may occur in
conjunction with a date format that accommodates the Year 2000
crossing, as well as with one that does not.  So "hits" on these
string do not necessarily indicate Year 2000 problems: they simply
identify elements that need to be examined.

   After the documents were scanned, therefore, each "hit" was
examined individually.  Those that cause no Year 2000 problems
(e.g., those that encode the year as a two-byte integer, or as a
four-character display string) are not discussed here.  Those that
do cause Year 2000 problems are identified in this document, and the
nature and impact of the problems they cause are described.



Summary of Possible Solutions

   o Summary of possible solutions and timelines for those solutions 

Inventory of Internet Protocols

   o Inventory of the year 2000 problem in the most popular Internet
     protocols and their most popular implementations

   o Suggested solutions to the problems noted in the inventory 


Autoconfiguration 

After examining the bootp rfcs, and going over the code there should
be no y2k problem with it.  All times are referenced as a 32bit integer
in seconds of UTC time.


Directory Services

After reviewing all Directory Service related RFCs see atached list
at the bottom of this note, There are no serious Year 2000 Issues
with Directory Service RFCs.
 
There are several DS (Directory Service) RFCs that specify the use
of UTC Date/Time Strings. Of the 48 DS related RFCs only 9 made
mention of Dates. Of those most specified dates in uTCTimeSyntax
which has the option of representing dates in either 2 or 4 year
formats.

The following DS RFCs mentioned the use of Dates:
    rfc1274.txt - Refrences UTC date/time
    rfc1276.txt - Refrences UTC date/time for version control.
    rfc1488.txt - Refrences UTC Time as printable strings.
    rfc1608.txt - Refers to uTCTimeSyntax
    rfc1609.txt - Refers to uTCTimeSyntax
    rfc1778.txt - Refers to uTCTimeSyntax
    rfc1714.txt * supports YY year and YYYY year date expressions.
    rfc1913.txt * Timestamps are GMT, in the format: YYYYMMDDHHMM
    rfc1834.txt X Specifys a Date container, but no format.
 
RFCs that mentioned UTC Time or made refrence to uTCTimeSyntax could
fail to be Y2K complient. These should be updated to specify the
four year version of uTCTimeSyntax rather than giving the option of
using a two year date represnetation. The RFCs that fall into this
catagory are marked with a dash (-) above.
 
RFCs with unusual date specifications are marked with an asterick
(*) above. These RFCs specify their own date format. Both of these
support Y2K complient dates.
 
RFC1714 (RWhois) specifies date formats that are  not Y2K complient,
but italso  support dates that are. Implementers of the RWhois
protocol should  onlyuse the %MY4 format
 
RFC1834 (Whois++) requires the use of dates, but it didn't specify
the format, syntax, or representation of the date string to be used.
 


Disk Sharing

The Network File System protocol provides a method for file sharing
across disks on a TCP/IP network.
 
The reference to time in this protocol is to set the length of
time to wait for the first try of a request; timeout.  Timeout time
in the NFS protocol is calculated rather than preserved. As such,
is not affected by the date.
 
SUN Microsystems states that there is known problem associated with
this protocol and the millennium change.



Games and Chat 



Information Services & File Transfer

HTTP
 
The main IETF standards-track document on the HTTP protocol is
RFC2068 on HTTP 1.1.  It notes that historically three different
date formats have been used, and that one of them uses a two-digit
year field.  In section 3.3.1 it requires HTTP 1.1 implementations
to generate this RFC1123 format:
 
     Sun, 06 Nov 1994 08:49:37 GMT  ; RFC 822, updated by RFC 1123
 
instead of this RFC850 format:

     Sunday, 06-Nov-94 08:49:37 GMT ; RFC 850, obsoleted by RFC 1036
 
Unfortunately, many existing servers, serving on the order of one
fifth of the current HTTP traffic, send dates in the ambiguous
RFC850 format.
 
Section 19.3 of the RFC2068 says this:
 
  o  HTTP/1.1 clients and caches should assume that an RFC-850 date
     which appears to be more than 50 years in the future is in fact
     in the past (this helps solve the "year 2000" problem).
 
This avoids a "stale cache" problem, which would cause the
user to see out-of-date data.
 
But to avoid unnecessary delays and bandwidth indicated in Scenario
2 below, this should be extended to say that a date which appears to
be more than 50 years in the past may be assumed to be in the
future, if a future date is legal for that field.
 
Scenario 3 indicates that servers may also want to follow these
rules.
 
 
Here is some more background and justification for these arguments.
 
The following headers use full dates:
 
HTTP/1.0:
        Date:
        Expires:                # can be in the future
        If-Modified-Since:      # required to be in the past
        Last-Modified:          # required to be in the past
        Retry-After:            # can be in the future, also takes
                                # relative time - number of seconds
 
HTTP/1.1:
        If-Range:
        If-Unmodified-Since:    # required to be in the past
 
Note that clock skew between hosts can lead to confusion here - see
the RFC for details.
 
Here are some scenarios of the implications of RFC850 dates, which
include stale caches, unnecessary requests for things which are
validly cached, delays for the user, extra bandwidth, and presenting
incorrect information to the user.
 
Some cases involve comparisons with the current time, and others may
involve comparisons between dates from different sources.  The
abbreviation "/99" is used to imply an RFC850 date with the value
"99" for the year.
 
 
RFC850 date from server
 
Scenario 1:
        If a client gets an Expires /99 date after the year 2000, it
        should interpret it as 1999, to avoid ending up with a stale
        cache entry.
 
        This is as already specified in RFC2068.
 
Scenario 2:
        If a client gets an Expires /00 date before the year 2000, and
        subsequently is faced with a choice to either retrieve the
        document from its cache or look for an updated copy, it may
        interpret it as the year 2000, to avoid the unnecessary delay
        and bandwidth of an extra request.
 
 
RFC850 date from client
 
Scenario 3:
        If a server gets an If-Modified-Since /99 date from a client
        after the year 2000, it should interpret it as 1999 when
        comparing with the local modification date, in order to
        possibly avoid sending a full GET response rather than a
        HEAD response.
 
        Note that an If-Modified-Since header must never be in the
        future.
 
 
(Note that there has been a lot of discussion about whether
If-Modified-Since should really be compared with "less than"
semantics or whether the date should be considered a 'token' which
is required to exactly match the Last-Modified date in order to
avoid a full GET response.  There have been bugs and problems with
implementations that deal badly with dailight savings time, etc.
I'm not sure how this debate dealt with the question of how to
convert the dates, or whether servers can actually use "less-than"
semantics.  Input is requested....)
 
 
 
Dates in HTML
 
In RFC1866, on HTML 2.0,the <META> tag allows the embedding of
recommended values for some HTTP headers, including Expires.  E.g.
 
    <META HTTP-EQUIV="Expires"
          CONTENT="Tue, 04 Dec 1993 21:29:02 GMT">
 
Servers should rewrite these dates into RFC1123 format if necessary.



Internet & Network Layer



Mail

After reviewing all mail-related RFCs, it was discovered that while
some obsolete standards required two-digit years, all currently-used
standards require four-digit years and are thus not prone to typical
Year 2000 problems.
 
RFCs 821 and 822, the main basis for SMTP mail exchange and message
format, originally required two-digit years. However, both of these
RFCs were later modified by RFC 1123 in 1989, which strongly
recommended 4-digit years.  Although there might be a few very old
SMTP systems using two-digit years, it is believed that almost all
mail sent over the Internet today uses four-digit years. Mail that
contains two-digit years in its SMTP headers will not "fail", but
might be missorted in message stores and mail user agents. This
problem is avoided entirely by taking the RFC 1123 change as a
requirement, rather than merely as a recommendation.
 
IMAP versions 1, 2, and 3 used two-digit years, but IMAP version 4
(defined in RFCs 1730 and 1732 in 1994) requires four-digit
years. There are still a few IMAP 2 servers and clients in use on
the Internet today, but IMAP version 4 has already take over almost
all of the IMAP market. Mail stored on an IMAP server or client with
two-digit years will not "fail", but could possibly be missorted or
prematurely expired.
 
RFC 1153 describes a format for digests of mailing lists, and uses
two-digit dates. This format is not widely used. The use of
two-digit dates could possibly cause missorting of stored messages.
 
RFC 1327, which describes mapping between X.400 mail and SMTP mail,
uses the UTCTime format.
 
RFC 1422 describes the structure of certificates that were used in
PEM (and are expected to be used in many other mail and non-mail
services). Those certificates use dates in UTCTime
format. Poorly-written software might prematurely expire or validate
a certificate based on comparisons of the date with the current
date, although no current software is known to do this.
 
Although not directly related to email, it should be noted that many
LDAP specifications use dates in UTCTime format. Also not directly
related to email, both the NNTP transport protocol and the Usenet
news message format use two-digit years.


NTP

You should understand there is no reference anywhere in the NTP
specification or implmentation to any reference epoch other than 1 January
1900. In short, NTP doesn't know anything about the millennium.

One such problem exists for rfc868 - Time Protocol (which is
an actual full "Internet Standard Protocol" as listed in rfc-index
and rfc2000):
 
   S: Send the time as a 32 bit binary number.
 
   ...
 
    The time is the number of seconds since 00:00 (midnight) 1 January 1900
    GMT, such that the time 1 is 12:00:01 am on 1 January 1900 GMT; this
    base will serve until the year 2036.
 
    For example:
       the time  2,208,988,800 corresponds to 00:00  1 Jan 1970 GMT,
                 2,398,291,200 corresponds to 00:00  1 Jan 1976 GMT,
                 2,524,521,600 corresponds to 00:00  1 Jan 1980 GMT,
                 2,629,584,000 corresponds to 00:00  1 May 1983 GMT,
            and -1,297,728,000 corresponds to 00:00 17 Nov 1858 GMT.
 
(By the way - this seems confusing - is it unsigned (as indicated
by the reference to 2036) or signed (as indicated by the example)?
And the value for 1 May 1983 should be 2,629,580,400.)
 
By my calculations, the end of this epoch is
        Thu Feb 07 00:54:54 2036 GMT


Name Serving



Network Management

   The Network Management Internet-Drafts reviewed for this report
include all Internet-Drafts that were current as of April 30, 1997.
The drafts were chosen for review using the following method.  The
file "1id-abstracts.txt" was searched for the keywords "MIB" and
"Manage" (case insensitive search).  All drafts with these keywords
ere pulled from the internet draft repository and searched.
 
Here's the actual list of Internet-Drafts that we searched:
 
   draft-anderson-docs-rf-mib-00.txt
   draft-battle-instresmib-00.txt
   draft-bierman-ptopo-mib-proto-00.txt
   draft-bolton-edimib-00.txt
   draft-bush-rdrn-mib-00.txt
   draft-bush-vnc-mib-00.txt
   draft-cochrane-frmib-dte-svc-00.txt
   draft-deri-http-mgmt-00.txt
   draft-donelan-netmgt-guidelines-00.txt
   draft-ietf-disman-mgt-target-mib-01.txt
   draft-ietf-disman-notify-mib-00.txt
   draft-hazewinkel-appl-mib-00.txt
   draft-ietf-agentx-ext-pro-03.txt
   draft-ietf-applmib-mib-02.txt
   draft-ietf-applmib-sysapplmib-08.txt
   draft-ietf-applmib-wwwmib-02.txt
   draft-ietf-atommib-acct-04.txt
   draft-ietf-atommib-atm1ng-03.txt
   draft-ietf-atommib-atm2-09.txt
   draft-ietf-atommib-atm2TC-06.txt
   draft-ietf-atommib-atmacct-01.txt
   draft-ietf-atommib-atmhist-00.txt
   draft-ietf-atommib-perfhistTC-01.txt
   draft-ietf-atommib-sonetng-02.txt
   draft-ietf-atommib-test-02.txt
   draft-ietf-avt-rtp-mib-00.txt
   draft-ietf-disman-event-mib-00.txt
   draft-ietf-disman-event-mib-01.txt
   draft-ietf-disman-express-mib-00.txt
   draft-ietf-disman-express-mib-01.txt
   draft-ietf-disman-framework-00.txt
   draft-ietf-disman-mgt-target-mib-00.txt
   draft-ietf-disman-mgt-target-mib-01.txt
   draft-ietf-disman-notify-mib-00.txt
   draft-ietf-disman-notify-mib-01.txt
   draft-ietf-disman-script-mib-01.txt
   draft-ietf-fddimib-objects-v2-02.txt
   draft-ietf-fddimib-smiv2-object-v2-01.txt
   draft-ietf-frnetmib-atmiwf-00.txt
   draft-ietf-frnetmib-dcp-01.txt
   draft-ietf-frnetmib-frs-mib-01.txt
   draft-ietf-frnetmib-spvc-00.txt
   draft-ietf-hubmib-etherif-mib-01.txt
   draft-ietf-hubmib-mau-mib-04.txt
   draft-ietf-idmr-igmp-mib-04.txt
   draft-ietf-idmr-multicast-routmib-05.txt
   draft-ietf-idmr-pim-mib-03.txt
   draft-ietf-ifmib-mib-05.txt
   draft-ietf-ifmib-testmib-02.txt
   draft-ietf-intserv-guaranteed-mib-03.txt
   draft-ietf-intserv-mib-05.txt
   draft-ietf-ion-mars-mib-00.txt
   draft-ietf-ion-mib-02.txt
   draft-ietf-ion-nhrp-mib-01.txt
   draft-ietf-iplpdn-frmib-dte-09.txt
   draft-ietf-ipngwg-ipv6-mib-01.txt
   draft-ietf-ipngwg-ipv6-udp-tcp-mib-01.txt
   draft-ietf-madman-alarmmib-02.txt
   draft-ietf-madman-dsa-mib-1-03.txt
   draft-ietf-madman-mail-monitor-mib-03.txt
   draft-ietf-madman-nsm-mib-04.txt
   draft-ietf-printmib-mib-info-01.txt
   draft-ietf-radius-clientmib-03.txt
   draft-ietf-radius-servmib-02.txt
   draft-ietf-rmonmib-hcrmon-00.txt
   draft-ietf-rmonmib-rmonprot-v2-00.txt
   draft-ietf-rsvp-mib-05.txt
   draft-ietf-rtfm-meter-mib-00.txt
   draft-ietf-snanau-appnmib-04.txt
   draft-ietf-snanau-dlurmib-00.txt
   draft-ietf-snanau-hprmib-00.txt
   draft-ietf-snmpv3-lpm-00.txt
   draft-ietf-snmpv3-next-gen-arch-00.txt
   draft-ietf-trunkmib-ds0-mib-03.txt
   draft-ietf-trunkmib-ds1-mib-05.txt
   draft-ietf-trunkmib-ds3-mib-04.txt
   draft-ietf-vgmib-repeater-dev-03.txt
   draft-jeya-vlan-8021q-mib-00.txt
   draft-kjones-ptopo-framework-00.txt
   draft-malachi-topology-terms-00.txt
   draft-mellquist-web-sys-01.txt
   draft-rfced-info-romanov-00.txt
   draft-smith-java-appl-00.txt
   draft-tackabury-neo-mib-00.txt
   draft-teow-fabric-mib-02.txt
   draft-warwick-tokenring-01.txt
   draft-warwick-tokenring-arch-01.txt
   draft-waterman-rmonmib-smon-00.txt


The following Year 2000-related elements were found in the network
management-related RFCs and current Internet-Drafts.  None of these
should have any impacts on interoperability.
 
1.  Use of GeneralizedTime in CMOT (RFCs 1095 and 1189)
 
    The standards for CMIP over TCP/IP specify an unusual use for
the GeneralizedTime type.  (GeneralizedTime has a four-digit
representation of the year.)
 
If the system generating the PDU does not have the current time, yet
does have the time since last boot, then GeneralizedTime can be used
to encode this information.  The time since last boot will be added
to the base time "0001 Jan 1 00:00:00.00" using the Gregorian
calendar algorithm.
 
    This is really a "Year 0" problem rather than a Year 2000
problem, and in any case, CMOT is not currently deployed (if it ever
was).
 

2.  UTCTime in SNMP Definitions
 
    UTCTime is an ASN.1 type that includes a two-digit
representation of the year.  There are several options for UTCTime
in ASN.1, that vary in precision and in local versus GMT, but these
options all have two-digit years.  The standards for SNMP
definitions specify one particular format:
 
       YYMMDDHHMMZ
 
    The first usage of UTCTime in the standards for SNMP definitions
goes all the way back to RFC 1303.  It has persisted unchanged up
through the current specifications in RFC 1902.  The role of UTCTime
in SNMP definitions is to record the history of an SNMP MIB module
in the module itself, via two ASN.1 macros:
 
    o   LAST-UPDATED
    o   REVISION
 
    Applications that store and use MIB modules need to be smart
about interpreting these UTCTimes, but with one exception, the times
do not actually flow in the network.  This one exception is the
appnNodeMibVersion object in the APPN MIB (currently
draft-ietf-snanau-appnmib-04.txt, but soon to be published as an
RFC), which returns the value of LAST-UPDATED from the version of
the APPN MIB that an agent has implemented.  An application that can
correctly interpret UTCTimes, by prepending a "19" or a "20" as
appropriate, in the MIB modules it has stored locally will be able
to interpret the value of this object correctly as well.
 
3.  Objects in the Printer MIB (RFC 1559,
        draft-ietf-printmib-mib-info-01.txt)
 
    There are two objects in the Printer MIB that allow use of a
date as an object value with no explicit guidance for formatting the
value.  The objects are prtInterpreterLangVersion and
prtInterpreterVersion.  Both are defined with a syntax of OCTET
STRING.  The descriptions for the objects allow the object value to
contain a date, version code or other product specific information
to identify the interpreter or language.  The descriptions do not
include an explicit statement recommending use of a four-digit year
when a date is used as the object value.
 
4.  Dates in Mobile Network Tracing Records (RFC 2041)
 
    The RFC specifies trace headers and footers with date fields
that are character arrays of size 32.  While 32 characters certainly
provide enough room for a four-digit year, there's no explicit
statement that these years must be represented with four digits.
 



News



Real Time Services



Routing

BGP4 (RFC1771) scanned for the Y2K problem
==========================================
 
Conclusion:
The protocol BGP4, as defined in RFC1771, is not vulnerable to the
Y2K problem.
  
The BGP4 protocol or the BGP4 FSM do not have knowledge of absolute
time. There is a notion of relative time inside BGP4, and this is
visible in the fact that BGP4 has five timers.
 
The five timers are not a problem, since they keep relative time, as
stated above. Below excerpts for proof from the RFC can be found:
 
* Hold timer:

The calculated value indicates the maximum number of seconds that
may elapse between the receipt of successive KEEPALIVE, and/or
UPDATE messages by the sender.
[...]

The suggested value for the Hold Time is 90 seconds.
 
* ConnectRetry timer:

The value of the initial timer shall be 60 seconds. The time shall
be doubled for each consecutive retry.
[...]

The suggested value for the ConnectRetry timer is 120 seconds.
 
* KeepAlive timer:

KeepAlive messages are sent periodically to ensure the liveness of
the connection.
[...]

The suggested value for the KeepAlive timer is 30 seconds.
 
* MinRouteAdvertisementInterval:

The parameter MinRouteAdvertisementInterval determines the minimum
amount of time that must elapse between advertisement of routes to a
particular destination from a single BGP speaker.
  [...]

The suggested value for the MinRouteAdvertisementInterval is 30
seconds.
 
* MinASOriginationInterval:

The parameter MinASOriginationInterval determines the minimum amount
of time that must elapse between successive advertisements of UPDATE
messages that report changes within the advertising BGP speaker's
own autonomous systems.
[...]

The suggested value for the MinASOriginationInterval is 15 seconds.
 


Security



Virtual Terminal

TN3270 in TELNET
* This is not reported to use dates and is therefore not susceptible
* to
  year 2000 problems.
 
TELNET
* This does not use dates, with the possible exception of
* authentication
  protocols.  There are no year 2000 problems with classic
  unauthenticated connections. Further review of authentication
  protocols and implementations (e.g. Kerberos) may be in order to
verify
  no year 2000 problems.
 
SSH
* the protocol authors report that this does not used dates and
* therefore
  is not susceptible to year 2000 problems.

X WINDOWS Protocol
 
Assuming you mean The X Window System ("it's a window system called
X, not a system called X Windows"), I am already fairly familiar
with it, and while I too don't have time to go over it with a
fine-tooth comb, I do not expect it to be vulnerable to Y2K
problems.  Almost all times that appear in the protocol are 32-bit
counters that tick once a millisecond, I think, which has a
time-to-wraparound of about 50 days.





Security Considerations

   Althought this document does consider the implications of various
   security protocols, there is no need for additional security
   considerations.  The effect of a potential year 2000 problem may
   cause some security problems, but those problems are more of
   specific applications rather than protocol deficiencies.

References

   Because of the exhaustive nature of this investigation, the
   reader is referred to the list of published RFC's available from
   the IETF Secretariat, rather than republishing them here.


Editors' Address

   Philip J. Nesser II
   Nesser & Nesser Consulting
   13501 100th Ave NE, Suite 5202
   Kirkland, WA 98034
   USA

   Phone: (206)481-4303
   Email: pjnesser@martigny.ai.mit.edu


Appendix A:  List of RFC's for each Area

The following list contains the RFC's grouped by area that were
searched for year 2000 problems.

Each line contains four fields are separated by '::'.  The first
filed is the RFC number, the second field is the type of RFC (S =
Standard, DS = Draft Standard, PS = Proposed Standard, E =
Experimental, H = Historical, I = Informational, BC = Best Current
Practice, '' = No Type), the third field is the  Title, and the
fourth field contains any comments.

Autoconfiguration
1971:: PS:: IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration:: 
1970:: PS:: Neighbor Discovery for IP Version 6 (IPv6):: 
1542:: PS:: Clarifications and Extensions for the Bootstrap Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC1532) 
1541:: PS:: Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC1531) 
1534:: PS:: Interoperation Between DHCP and BOOTP::
1533:: PS:: DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor Extensions:: (Obsoletes RFC1497) 
1532:: PS:: Clarifications and Extensions for the Bootstrap Protocol:: (Updates RFC0951) (Obsoleted by RFC1542) 
1531:: PS:: Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol:: (Obsoleted by RFC1541) 
1497:: DS:: BOOTP Vendor Information Extensions:: (Updates RFC0951) (Obsoletes RFC1395) (Obsoleted by RFC1533) 
1395:: DS:: BOOTP Vendor Information Extensions:: (Updates RFC0951) (Obsoletes RFC1084) (Obsoleted by RFC1497) 
1084:: DS:: BOOTP vendor information extensions:: (Obsoletes RFC1048) (Obsoleted by RFC1395) 
1048:: DS:: BOOTP vendor information extensions:: (Obsoleted by RFC1084) 
951:: DS:: Bootstrap Protocol:: "(Updated by RFC1532, RFC1395, RFC1497) "
906::  :: Bootstrap loading using TFTP:: 
======================================================================
Directory Services
2120:: E:: Managing the X.500 Root Naming Context:: 
2079:: PS:: Definition of X.500 Attribute Types and an Object Class to Hold Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs):: 
1943:: I:: Building an X.500 Directory Service in the US:: 
1914:: PS:: How to interact with a Whois++ mesh:: 
1913:: PS:: Architecture of the Whois++ Index Service:: 
1838:: E:: Use of the X.500 Directory to support mapping between X.400 and RFC 822 Addresses:: 
1837:: E:: Representing Tables and Subtrees in the X.500 Directory:: 
1836:: E:: Representing the O/R Address hierarchy in the X.500 Directory Information Tree:: 
1835:: PS:: Architecture of the WHOIS++ service:: 
1834:: I:: Whois and Network Information Lookup Service Whois++:: 
1781:: PS:: Using the OSI Directory to Achieve User Friendly Naming:: (Obsoletes RFC1484) 
1714:: I:: Referral Whois Protocol (RWhois):: 
1684:: I:: Introduction to White Pages services based on X.500:: 
1637:: E:: DNS NSAP Resource Records:: (Obsoletes RFC1348) (Obsoleted by RFC1706) 
1632:: I:: A Revised Catalog of Available X.500 Implementations:: (FYI 11) (Obsoletes RFC1292) 
1617:: I:: Naming and Structuring Guidelines for X.500 Directory Pilots:: (RTR 11) (Obsoletes RFC1384) 
1609:: E:: Charting Networks in the X.500 Directory:: 
1608:: E:: Representing IP Information in the X.500 Directory:: 
1588:: I:: WHITE PAGES MEETING REPORT:: 
1562:: I:: Naming Guidelines for the AARNet X.500 Directory Service:: 
1491:: I:: A Survey of Advanced Usages of X.500:: (FYI 21) 
1488:: PS:: The X.500 String Representation of Standard Attribute Syntaxes:: (Obsoleted by RFC1778) 
1487:: PS:: X.500 Lightweight Directory Access Protocol:: (Obsoleted by RFC1777) 
1485:: PS:: A String Representation of Distinguished Names (OSI-DS 23 (v5)):: (Obsoleted by RFC1779) 
1484:: E:: Using the OSI Directory to achieve User Friendly Naming (OSI-DS 24 (v1.2)):: (Obsoleted by RFC1781) 
1430:: I:: A Strategic Plan for Deploying an Internet X.500 Directory Service:: 
1400:: I:: Transition and Modernization of the Internet Registration Service:: 
1384:: I:: Naming Guidelines for Directory Pilots:: (Obsoleted by RFC1617) 
1355:: I:: Privacy and Accuracy Issues in Network Information Center Databases:: (FYI 15) 
1330:: I:: Recommendations for the Phase I Deployment of OSI Directory Services (X.500) and OSI Message Handling Services (X.400) within the ESnet Community:: 
1309:: I:: Technical Overview of Directory Services Using the X.500 Protocol:: (FYI 14) 
1308:: I:: Executive Introduction to Directory Services Using the X.500 Protocol:: (FYI 13) 
1292:: I:: A Catalog of Available X.500 Implementations:: (FYI 11) (Obsoleted by RFC1632) 
1279::  :: X.500 and Domains:: 
1276:: PS:: Replication and Distributed Operations extensions to provide an Internet Directory using X.500:: 
1275:: I:: Replication Requirements to provide an Internet Directory using X.500:: 
1274:: PS:: The COSINE and Internet X.500 Schema:: 
1255:: I:: A Naming Scheme for c=US:: (Obsoletes RFC1218) 
1218::  :: A Naming Scheme for c=US:: (Obsoleted by RFC1255) 
1202:: I:: Directory Assistance Service:: 
1107::  :: Plan for Internet directory services:: 
954:: DS:: NICNAME/WHOIS:: (Obsoletes RFC0812) 
953:: H:: Hostname Server:: (Obsoletes RFC0811) 
812::  :: NICNAME/WHOIS:: (Obsoleted by RFC0954) 
756::  :: NIC name server - a datagram-based information utility:: 
752::  :: Universal host table:: 
======================================================================
Disk Sharing
1813:: I:: NFS Version 3 Protocol Specification:: 
1094:: H:: NFS: Network File System Protocol specification:: 
======================================================================
Games and Chat
1459:: E:: Internet Relay Chat Protocol:: 
======================================================================
Information Services & File Transfer
2122:: PS:: VEMMI URL Specification:: 
2070:: PS:: Internationalization of the Hypertext Markup Language:: 
2068:: PS:: Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1:: 
2056:: PS:: Uniform Resource Locators for Z39.50:: 
2055:: I:: WebNFS Server Specification:: 
2054:: I:: WebNFS Client Specification:: 
2044:: I:: "UTF-8, a transformation format of Unicode and ISO 10646":: 
2016:: E:: Uniform Resource Agents (URAs):: 
1986:: E:: Experiments with a Simple File Transfer Protocol for Radio Links using Enhanced Trivial File Transfer Protocol (ETFTP):: 
1980:: I:: A Proposed Extension to HTML: Client-Side Image Maps:: 
1960:: PS:: A String Representation of LDAP Search Filters:: (Obsoletes RFC1558) 
1959:: PS:: An LDAP URL Format:: 
1945:: I:: Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.0:: 
1942:: E:: HTML Tables:: 
1874:: E:: SGML Media Types:: 
1867:: E:: Form-based File Upload in HTML:: 
1866:: PS:: Hypertext Markup Language - 2.0:: 
1865:: I:: EDI Meets the Internet: Frequently Asked Questions about Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) on the Internet:: 
1862:: I:: "Report of the IAB Workshop on Internet Information Infrastructure, October 12-14, 1994":: 
1843:: I:: HZ - A Data Format for Exchanging Files of Arbitrarily Mixed Chinese and ASCII characters:: 
1842:: I:: ASCII Printable Characters-Based Chinese Character Encoding for Internet Messages:: 
1823:: I:: The LDAP Application Program Interface:: 
1815:: I:: Character Sets ISO-10646 and ISO-10646-J-1:: 
1808:: PS:: Relative Uniform Resource Locators:: 
1807:: I:: A Format for Bibliographic Records:: 
1798:: PS:: Connection-less Lightweight Directory Access Protocol:: 
1788:: E:: ICMP Domain Name Messages:: 
1785:: I:: TFTP Option Negotiation Analysis:: (Updates RFC1350) 
1784:: PS:: TFTP Timeout Interval and Transfer Size Options:: (Updates RFC1350) 
1783:: PS:: TFTP Blocksize Option:: (Updates RFC1350) 
1782:: PS:: TFTP Option Extension:: (Updates RFC1350) 
1779:: DS:: A String Representation of Distinguished Names:: (Obsoletes RFC1485) 
1778:: DS:: The String Representation of Standard Attribute Syntaxes:: (Obsoletes RFC1488) 
1777:: DS:: Lightweight Directory Access Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC1487) 
1766:: PS:: Tags for the Identification of Languages:: 
1738:: PS:: Uniform Resource Locators (URL):: 
1737:: I:: Functional Requirements for Uniform Resource Names:: 
1736:: I:: Functional Requirements for Internet Resource Locators:: 
1729:: I:: Using the Z39.50 Information Retrieval Protocol in the Internet Environment:: 
1728:: I:: Resource Transponders:: 
1727:: I:: A Vision of an Integrated Internet Information Service:: 
1639:: E:: FTP Operation Over Big Address Records (FOOBAR):: (Obsoletes RFC1545) 
1633:: I:: Integrated Services in the Internet Architecture: an Overview.:: 
1630:: I:: Universal Resource Identifiers in WWW: A Unifying Syntax for the Expression of Names and Addresses of Objects on the Network as used in the World-Wide Web:: 
1625:: I:: WAIS over Z39.50-1988:: 
1558:: I:: A String Representation of LDAP Search Filters:: (Obsoleted by RFC1960) 
1554:: I:: ISO-2022-JP-2: Multilingual Extension of ISO-2022-JP:: 
1545:: E:: FTP Operation Over Big Address Records (FOOBAR):: (Obsoleted by RFC1639) 
1530:: I:: Principles of Operation for the TPC.INT Subdomain: General Principles and Policy:: 
1529:: I:: Principles of Operation for the TPC.INT Subdomain: Remote Printing -- Administrative Policies:: (Obsoletes RFC1486) 
1528:: E:: Principles of Operation for the TPC.INT Subdomain: Remote Printing -- Technical Procedures:: (Obsoletes RFC1486) 
1489:: I:: Registration of a Cyrillic Character Set:: 
1486:: E:: An Experiment in Remote Printing:: "(Obsoleted by RFC1528, RFC1529) "
1440:: E:: SIFT/UFT: Sender-Initiated/Unsolicited File Transfer:: 
1436:: I:: The Internet Gopher Protocol (a distributed document search and retrieval protocol):: 
1415:: PS:: FTP-FTAM Gateway Specification:: 
1413:: PS:: Identification Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0931) 
1350:: S:: THE TFTP PROTOCOL (REVISION 2):: "(Obsoletes RFC0783) (STD 33) (Updated by RFC1782, RFC1783, RFC1784, RFC1785) "
1345:: I:: Character Mnemonics & Character Sets:: 
1312:: E:: Message Send Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC1159) 
1302:: I:: Building a Network Information Services Infrastructure:: (FYI 12) 
1288:: DS:: The Finger User Information Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC1196) 
1278:: I:: A String Encoding of Presentation Address:: 
1241:: E:: A Scheme for an Internet Encapsulation Protocol: Version 1:: 
1235:: E:: The Coherent File Distribution Protocol:: 
1196:: DS:: The Finger User Information Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC1194) (Obsoleted by RFC1288) 
1194:: DS:: The Finger User Information Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0742) (Obsoleted by RFC1196) 
1179:: I:: Line Printer Daemon Protocol:: 
1123:: S:: Requirements for Internet hosts - application and support:: (STD 3) 
1068::  :: Background File Transfer Program BFTP:: 
1037:: H:: NFILE - a file access protocol:: 
1003::  :: Issues in defining an equations representation standard:: 
998:: E:: NETBLT: A bulk data transfer protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0969) 
978::  :: "Postel, J.B Voice File Interchange Protocol VFIP":: 
971::  :: Survey of data representation standards:: 
969::  :: NETBLT: A bulk data transfer protocol:: (Obsoleted by RFC0998) 
965::  :: Format for a graphical communication protocol:: 
959:: S:: File Transfer Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0765) (STD 9) 
949::  :: FTP unique-named store command:: 
916:: H:: Reliable Asynchronous Transfer Protocol RATP:: 
913:: H:: Simple File Transfer Protocol:: 
887:: E:: Resource Location Protocol:: 
866:: S:: Active users:: (STD 23) 
865:: S:: Quote of the Day Protocol:: 
864:: S:: Character Generator Protocol:: (STD 22) 
863:: S:: Discard Protocol:: (STD 21) 
862:: S:: Echo Protocol:: (STD 20) 
797::  :: Format for Bitmap files:: 
795::  :: Service mappings:: 
783:: DS:: TFTP Protocol revision 2:: (Obsoleted by RFC1350) 
775::  :: Directory oriented FTP commands:: 
765::  :: File Transfer Protocol specification:: (Obsoletes RFC0542) (Obsoleted by RFC0959) 
751::  :: Survey of FTP mail and MLFL:: 
743::  :: FTP extension: XRSQ/XRCP:: 
742:: PS:: NAME/FINGER Protocol:: (Obsoleted by RFC1194) 
740:: H:: NETRJS Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0599) 
737::  :: FTP extension: XSEN:: 
725::  :: RJE protocol for a resource sharing network:: 
722::  :: Thoughts on interactions in distributed services:: 
712::  :: Distributed Capability Computing System DCCS:: 
707::  :: High-level framework for network-based resource sharing:: 
697::  :: CWD command of FTP:: 
691::  :: One more try on the FTP:: 
683::  :: FTPSRV - Tenex extension for paged files:: 
662::  :: Performance improvement in ARPANET file transfers from Multics:: 
640::  :: Revised FTP reply codes:: 
633::  :: IMP/TIP preventive maintenance schedule:: (Obsoleted by RFC0638) 
630::  :: FTP error code usage for more reliable mail service:: 
624::  :: Comments on the File Transfer Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0607) 
622::  :: Scheduling IMP/TIP down time:: 
614::  :: "Response to RFC 607: ""Comments on the File Transfer Protocol""":: (Updates RFC0607) 
610::  :: Further datalanguage design concepts:: 
607::  :: Comments on the File Transfer Protocol:: (Obsoleted by RFC0624) (Updated by RFC0614) 
599::  :: Update on NETRJS:: (Obsoletes RFC0189) (Obsoleted by RFC0740) 
593::  :: Telnet and FTP implementation schedule change:: 
592::  :: Some thoughts on system design to facilitate resource sharing:: 
589::  :: CCN NETRJS server messages to remote user:: 
573::  :: Data and file transfer: Some measurement results:: 
571::  :: Tenex FTP problem:: 
570::  :: Experimental input mapping between NVT ASCII and UCSB On Line System:: 
553::  :: Draft design for a text/graphics protocol:: 
551::  :: "[Letter from Feinroth re: NYU, ANL, and LBL entering the net, and FTP protocol]":: 
549::  :: "Minutes of Network Graphics Group meeting, 15-17 July 1973":: 
543::  :: Network journal submission and delivery:: 
542::  :: File Transfer Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0354) (Obsoleted by RFC0765) 
535::  :: Comments on File Access Protocol:: 
532::  :: UCSD-CC Server-FTP facility:: 
525::  :: MIT-MATHLAB meets UCSB-OLS -an example of resource sharing:: 
520::  :: Memo to FTP group: Proposal for File Access Protocol:: 
514::  :: Network make-work:: 
506::  :: FTP command naming problem:: 
505::  :: Two solutions to a file transfer access problem:: 
504::  :: Distributed resources workshop announcement:: 
501::  :: "Un-muddling ""free file transfer""":: 
499::  :: Harvard's network RJE:: 
493::  :: "E.W., Jr Graphics Protocol":: 
490::  :: Surrogate RJS for UCLA-CCN:: 
487::  :: Free file transfer:: 
486::  :: Data transfer revisited:: 
485::  :: MIX and MIXAL at UCSB:: 
480::  :: Host-dependent FTP parameters:: 
479::  :: Use of FTP by the NIC Journal:: 
478::  :: FTP server-server interaction - II:: 
477::  :: Remote Job Service at UCSB:: 
472::  :: Illinois' reply to Maxwell's request for graphics information NIC 14925:: 
468::  :: FTP data compression:: 
467::  :: Proposed change to Host-Host Protocol:Resynchronization of connection status:: (Updated by RFC0492) 
463::  :: FTP comments and response to RFC 430:: 
454::  :: File Transfer Protocol - meeting announcement and a new proposed document:: 
451::  :: Tentative proposal for a Unified User Level Protocol:: 
448::  :: Print files in FTP:: 
446::  :: Proposal to consider a network program resource notebook:: 
438::  :: FTP server-server interaction:: 
437::  :: Data Reconfiguration Service at UCSB:: 
436::  :: Announcement of RJS at UCSB:: 
430::  :: Comments on File Transfer Protocol:: 
429::  :: Character generator process:: 
418::  :: Server file transfer under TSS/360 at NASA Ames:: 
414::  :: File Transfer Protocol FTP status and further comments:: (Updates RFC0385) 
412::  :: User FTP documentation:: 
411::  :: New MULTICS network software features:: 
410::  :: Removal of the 30-second delay when hosts come up:: 
409::  :: Tenex interface to UCSB's Simple-Minded File System:: 
407:: H:: Remote Job Entry Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0360) 
406::  :: Scheduled IMP software releases:: 
396::  :: Network Graphics Working Group meeting - second iteration:: 
387::  :: Some experiences in implementing Network Graphics Protocol Level 0:: 
385::  :: Comments on the File Transfer Protocol:: (Updates RFC0354) (Updated by RFC0414) 
382::  :: Mathematical software on the ARPA Network:: 
374::  :: IMP system announcement:: 
373::  :: Arbitrary character sets:: 
368::  :: "Comments on ""Proposed Remote Job Entry Protocol""":: 
367::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0366) (Obsoleted by RFC0370) 
366::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0362) (Obsoleted by RFC0367) 
361::  :: Deamon processes on host 106:: 
360::  :: Proposed Remote Job Entry Protocol:: (Obsoleted by RFC0407) 
354::  :: File Transfer Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0264) (Obsoleted by RFC0542) (Updated by RFC0385) 
351::  :: Graphics information form for the ARPANET graphics resources notebook:: 
342::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0332) (Obsoleted by RFC0344) 
338::  :: EBCDIC/ASCII mapping for network RJE:: 
336::  :: Level 0 Graphic Input Protocol:: 
335::  :: New interface - IMP/360:: 
332::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0330) (Obsoleted by RFC0342) 
325::  :: Network Remote Job Entry program - NETRJS:: 
324::  :: RJE Protocol meeting:: 
314::  :: Network Graphics Working Group meeting:: 
310::  :: Another look at Data and File Transfer Protocols:: 
309::  :: Data and File Transfer workshop announcement:: 
307::  :: Using network Remote Job Entry:: 
306::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0298) (Obsoleted by RFC0315) 
299::  :: Information management system:: 
298::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0293) (Obsoleted by RFC0306) 
294::  :: "On the use of ""set data type"" transaction in File Transfer Protocol":: (Updates RFC0265) 
293::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0288) (Obsoleted by RFC0298) 
292::  :: "E.W., Jr Graphics Protocol: Level 0 only":: 
288::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0287) (Obsoleted by RFC0293) 
287::  :: Status of network hosts:: (Obsoletes RFC0267) (Obsoleted by RFC0288) 
286::  :: Network library information system:: 
285::  :: Network graphics:: 
283::  :: NETRJT: Remote Job Service Protocol for TIPS:: (Updates RFC0189) 
281::  :: Suggested addition to File Transfer Protocol:: 
268::  :: Graphics facilities information:: 
267::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0266) (Obsoleted by RFC0287) 
266::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0255) (Obsoleted by RFC0267) 
265::  :: "Heafner, J.F ,McKenzie, A.M , Melvin, J.T , Sundberg, R.L , Watson, R.W , White, J.E.File Transfer Protocol":: (Updated by RFC0294) 
264::  :: "Heafner, J.F ,McKenzie, A.M , Melvin, J.T , Sundberg, R.L , Watson, R.W , White, J.E.Data Transfer Protocol":: (Obsoletes RFC0171) (Obsoleted by RFC0354) 
255::  :: Status of network hosts:: (Obsoletes RFC0252) (Obsoleted by RFC0266) 
252::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0240) (Obsoleted by RFC0255) 
250::  :: Some thoughts on file transfer:: 
238::  :: Comments on DTP and FTP proposals:: (Updates RFC0171) 
217::  :: "Specifications changes for OLS, RJE/RJOR, and SMFS":: (Updates RFC0074) 
199::  :: Suggestions for a network data-tablet graphics protocol:: 
192::  :: Some factors which a Network Graphics Protocol must consider:: 
191::  :: Graphics implementation and conceptualization at Augmentation Research Center:: 
189::  :: Interim NETRJS specifications:: (Obsoletes RFC0088) (Obsoleted by RFC0599) (Updated by RFC0283) 
184::  :: Proposed graphic display modes:: 
183::  :: EBCDIC codes and their mapping to ASCII:: 
181::  :: Modifications to RFC 177:: (Updates RFC0177) 
174::  :: UCLA - computer science graphics overview:: 
172::  :: File Transfer Protocol:: (Updates RFC0114) 
163::  :: Data transfer protocols:: 
141::  :: Comments on RFC 114: A File Transfer Protocol:: (Updates RFC0114) 
134::  :: Network Graphics meeting:: 
133::  :: File transfer and recovery:: 
125::  :: Response to RFC 86: Proposal for network standard format for a graphics data stream:: (Updates RFC0086) (Updated by RFC0177) 
114::  :: File Transfer Protocol:: "(Updated by RFC0171, RFC0172, RFC0141) "
105::  :: Network specifications for Remote Job Entry and Remote Job Output Retrieval at UCSB:: 
98::  :: Logger Protocol proposal:: (Updated by RFC0123) 
94::  :: Some thoughts on network graphics:: 
88::  :: NETRJS: A third level protocol for Remote JobEntry:: (Obsoleted by RFC0189) 
86::  :: Proposal for a network standard format for a data stream to control graphics display:: (Updated by RFC0125) 
83::  :: Language-machine for data reconfiguration:: 
======================================================================
Internet & Network Layer
2126:: PS:: ISO Transport Service on top of TCP (ITOT):: 
2125:: PS:: The PPP Bandwidth Allocation Protocol (BAP) The PPP Bandwidth Allocation Control Protocol (BACP):: 
2118:: I:: Microsoft Point-To-Point Compression (MPPC) Protocol:: 
2114:: I:: Data Link Switching Client Access Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC2106) 
2113:: PS:: IP Router Alert Option:: 
2107:: I:: Ascend Tunnel Management Protocol - ATMP:: 
2106:: I:: Data Link Switching Remote Access Protocol:: (Obsoleted by RFC2114) 
2105:: I:: Cisco Systems' Tag Switching Architecture Overview:: 
2098:: I:: Toshiba's Router Architecture Extensions for ATM : Overview:: 
2097:: PS:: The PPP NetBIOS Frames Control Protocol (NBFCP):: 
2075:: I:: IP Echo Host Service:: 
2067:: DS:: IP over HIPPI:: (Obsoletes RFC1374) 
2043:: PS:: The PPP SNA Control Protocol (SNACP):: 
2023:: PS:: IP Version 6 over PPP:: 
2019:: PS:: Transmission of IPv6 Packets Over FDDI:: 
2018:: PS:: TCP Selective Acknowledgment Options:: 
2009:: E:: GPS-Based Addressing and Routing:: 
2005:: PS:: Applicability Statement for IP Mobility Support:: 
2004:: PS:: Minimal Encapsulation within IP:: 
2003:: PS:: IP Encapsulation within IP:: 
2002:: PS:: IP Mobility Support:: 
2001:: PS:: "TCP Slow Start, Congestion Avoidance, Fast Retransmit, and Fast Recovery Algorithms":: 
1994:: DS:: PPP Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP):: (Obsoletes RFC1334) 
1993:: I:: PPP Gandalf FZA Compression Protocol:: 
1990:: DS:: The PPP Multilink Protocol (MP):: (Obsoletes RFC1717) 
1989:: DS:: PPP Link Quality Monitoring:: (Obsoletes RFC1333) 
1981:: PS:: Path MTU Discovery for IP version 6:: 
1979:: I:: PPP Deflate Protocol:: 
1978:: I:: PPP Predictor Compression Protocol:: 
1977:: I:: PPP BSD Compression Protocol:: 
1976:: I:: PPP for Data Compression in Data Circuit-Terminating Equipment (DCE):: 
1975:: I:: PPP Magnalink Variable Resource Compression:: 
1974:: I:: PPP Stac LZS Compression Protocol:: 
1973:: PS:: PPP in Frame Relay:: 
1972:: PS:: A Method for the Transmission of IPv6 Packets over Ethernet Networks:: 
1967:: I:: PPP LZS-DCP Compression Protocol (LZS-DCP):: 
1963:: I:: PPP Serial Data Transport Protocol (SDTP):: 
1962:: PS:: The PPP Compression Control Protocol (CCP):: 
1954:: I:: Transmission of Flow Labelled IPv4 on ATM Data Links Ipsilon Version 1.0:: 
1946:: I:: Native ATM Support for ST2+:: 
1937:: I:: Local/Remote Forwarding Decision in Switched Data Link Subnetworks:: 
1936:: I:: Implementing the Internet Checksum in Hardware:: 
1934:: I:: Ascend's Multilink Protocol Plus (MP+):: 
1933:: PS:: Transition Mechanisms for IPv6 Hosts and Routers:: 
1932:: I:: IP over ATM: A Framework Document:: 
1931:: I:: Dynamic RARP Extensions and Administrative Support for Automatic Network Address Allocation:: 
1926:: I:: An Experimental Encapsulation of IP Datagrams on Top of ATM:: 
1924:: I:: A Compact Representation of IPv6 Addresses:: 
1919:: I:: Classical versus Transparent IP Proxies:: 
1918:: BC:: Address Allocation for Private Internets:: (Updates RFC1627) (Obsoletes RFC1597) 
1917:: BC:: An Appeal to the Internet Community to Return Unused IP Networks (Prefixes) to the IANA:: 
1916:: I:: Enterprise Renumbering: Experience and Information Solicitation:: 
1915:: BC:: Variance for The PPP Connection Control Protocol and The PPP Encryption Control Protocol:: 
1897:: E:: IPv6 Testing Address Allocation:: 
1888:: E:: OSI NSAPs and IPv6:: 
1887:: I:: An Architecture for IPv6 Unicast Address Allocation:: 
1885:: PS:: Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMPv6) for the Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6):: 
1884:: PS:: IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture:: 
1883:: PS:: "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification":: 
1881:: I:: IPv6 Address Allocation Management:: 
1878:: I:: Variable Length Subnet Table For IPv4:: (Obsoletes RFC1860) 
1877:: I:: PPP Internet Protocol Control Protocol Extensions for Name Server Addresses:: 
1868:: E:: ARP Extension - UNARP:: 
1860:: I:: Variable Length Subnet Table For IPv4:: (Obsoleted by RFC1878) 
1859:: I:: ISO Transport Class 2 Non-use of Explicit Flow Control over TCP RFC1006 extension:: 
1853:: I:: IP in IP Tunneling:: 
1841:: I:: PPP Network Control Protocol for LAN Extension:: 
1833:: PS:: Binding Protocols for ONC RPC Version 2:: 
1832:: PS:: XDR: External Data Representation Standard:: 
1831:: PS:: RPC: Remote Procedure Call Protocol Specification Version 2:: 
1809:: I:: Using the Flow Label Field in IPv6:: 
1795:: I:: "Data Link Switching: Switch-to-Switch Protocol AIW DLSw RIG: DLSw Closed Pages, DLSw Standard Version 1.0":: 
1791:: E:: TCP And UDP Over IPX Networks With Fixed Path MTU:: 
1770:: I:: IPv4 Option for Sender Directed Multi-Destination Delivery:: 
1764:: PS:: The PPP XNS IDP Control Protocol (XNSCP):: 
1763:: PS:: The PPP Banyan Vines Control Protocol (BVCP):: 
1762:: DS:: The PPP DECnet Phase IV Control Protocol (DNCP):: (Obsoletes RFC1376) 
1761:: I:: Snoop Version 2 Packet Capture File Format:: 
1756:: E:: REMOTE WRITE PROTOCOL - VERSION 1.0:: 
1755:: PS:: ATM Signaling Support for IP over ATM:: 
1754:: I:: IP over ATM Working Group's Recommendations for the ATM Forum's Multiprotocol BOF Version 1:: 
1752:: PS:: The Recommendation for the IP Next Generation Protocol:: 
1744:: I:: Observations on the Management of the Internet Address Space:: 
1735:: E:: NBMA Address Resolution Protocol (NARP):: 
1726:: I:: Technical Criteria for Choosing IP:The Next Generation (IPng):: 
1719:: I:: A Direction for IPng:: 
1717:: PS:: The PPP Multilink Protocol (MP):: (Obsoleted by RFC1990) 
1710:: I:: Simple Internet Protocol Plus White Paper:: 
1707:: I:: CATNIP: Common Architecture for the Internet:: 
1705:: I:: Six Virtual Inches to the Left: The Problem with IPng:: 
1698:: I:: Octet Sequences for Upper-Layer OSI to Support Basic Communications Applications:: 
1693:: E:: An Extension to TCP : Partial Order Service:: 
1692:: PS:: Transport Multiplexing Protocol (TMux):: 
1688:: I:: IPng Mobility Considerations:: 
1687:: I:: A Large Corporate User's View of IPng:: 
1686:: I:: IPng Requirements: A Cable Television Industry Viewpoint:: 
1683:: I:: Multiprotocol Interoperability In IPng:: 
1682:: I:: IPng BSD Host Implementation Analysis:: 
1681:: I:: On Many Addresses per Host:: 
1680:: I:: IPng Support for ATM Services:: 
1679:: I:: HPN Working Group Input to the IPng Requirements Solicitation:: 
1678:: I:: IPng Requirements of Large Corporate Networks:: 
1677:: I:: Tactical Radio Frequency Communication Requirements for IPng:: 
1676:: I:: INFN Requirements for an IPng:: 
1674:: I:: A Cellular Industry View of IPng:: 
1673:: I:: Electric Power Research Institute Comments on IPng:: 
1672:: I:: Accounting Requirements for IPng:: 
1671:: I:: IPng White Paper on Transition and Other Considerations:: 
1670:: I:: Input to IPng Engineering Considerations:: 
1669:: I:: Market Viability as a IPng Criteria:: 
1667:: I:: Modeling and Simulation Requirements for IPng:: 
1663:: PS:: PPP Reliable Transmission:: 
1662:: S:: PPP in HDLC-like Framing:: (Obsoletes RFC1549) (STD 51) 
1661:: S:: The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP):: (Obsoletes RFC1548) (STD 51) 
1644:: E:: T/TCP -- TCP Extensions for Transactions Functional Specification:: 
1638:: PS:: PPP Bridging Control Protocol (BCP):: (Obsoletes RFC1220) 
1634:: I:: Novell IPX Over Various WAN Media (IPXWAN):: (Obsoletes RFC1551) 
1631:: I:: The IP Network Address Translator (Nat):: 
1629:: DS:: Guidelines for OSI NSAP Allocation in the Internet:: (Obsoletes RFC1237) 
1626:: PS:: Default IP MTU for use over ATM AAL5:: 
1624:: I:: Computation of the Internet Checksum via Incremental Update:: (Updates RFC1071) 
1622:: I:: Pip Header Processing:: 
1621:: I:: Pip Near-term Architecture:: 
1620:: I:: Internet Architecture Extensions for Shared Media:: 
1619:: PS:: PPP over SONET/SDH:: 
1618:: PS:: PPP over ISDN:: 
1613:: I:: cisco Systems X.25 over TCP (XOT):: 
1605:: I:: SONET to Sonnet Translation:: 
1604:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for Frame Relay Service:: (Obsoletes RFC1596) 
1598:: PS:: PPP in X.25:: 
1590:: I:: Media Type Registration Procedure:: (Updates RFC1521) (Obsoleted by RFC2048) 
1577:: PS:: Classical IP and ARP over ATM:: 
1575:: DS:: An Echo Function for CLNP (ISO 8473):: (Obsoletes RFC1139) 
1570:: PS:: PPP LCP Extensions:: (Updates RFC1548) 
1561:: E:: Use of ISO CLNP in TUBA Environments:: 
1560:: I:: The MultiProtocol Internet:: 
1553:: PS:: Compressing IPX Headers Over WAN Media (CIPX):: 
1552:: PS:: The PPP Internetwork Packet Exchange Control Protocol (IPXCP):: 
1551:: I:: Novell IPX Over Various WAN Media (IPXWAN):: (Obsoletes RFC1362) (Obsoleted by RFC1634) 
1549:: DS:: PPP in HDLC Framing:: (Obsoleted by RFC1662) 
1548:: DS:: The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP):: (Obsoletes RFC1331) (Obsoleted by RFC1661) (Updated by RFC1570) 
1547:: I:: Requirements for an Internet Standard Point-to-Point Protocol:: 
1538:: I:: Advanced SNA/IP : A Simple SNA Transport Protocol:: 
1526:: I:: Assignment of System Identifiers for TUBA/CLNP Hosts:: 
1518:: PS:: An Architecture for IP Address Allocation with CIDR:: 
1498:: I:: On the Naming and Binding of Network Destinations:: 
1490:: DS:: Multiprotocol Interconnect over Frame Relay:: (Obsoletes RFC1294) 
1483:: PS:: Multiprotocol Encapsulation over ATM Adaptation Layer 5:: 
1475:: E:: TP/IX: The Next Internet:: 
1466:: I:: Guidelines for Management of IP Address Space:: (Obsoletes RFC1366) (Obsoleted by RFC2050) 
1454:: I:: Comparison of Proposals for Next Version of IP:: 
1435:: I:: IESG Advice from Experience with Path MTU Discovery:: 
1434:: I:: Data Link Switching: Switch-to-Switch Protocol:: 
1433:: E:: Directed ARP:: 
1393:: E:: Traceroute Using an IP Option:: 
1390:: S:: Transmission of IP and ARP over FDDI Networks:: (Obsoletes RFC1188) (STD 36) 
1385:: I:: EIP: The Extended Internet Protocol A Framework for Maintaining Backward Compatibility:: 
1379:: I:: Extending TCP for Transactions -- Concepts:: 
1378:: PS:: The PPP AppleTalk Control Protocol (ATCP):: 
1377:: PS:: The PPP OSI Network Layer Control Protocol (OSINLCP):: 
1376:: PS:: The PPP DECnet Phase IV Control Protocol (DNCP):: (Obsoleted by RFC1762) 
1375:: I:: Suggestion for New Classes of IP Addresses:: 
1374:: PS:: IP and ARP on HIPPI:: (Obsoleted by RFC2067) 
1365:: I:: An IP Address Extension Proposal:: 
1363:: E:: A Proposed Flow Specification:: 
1362:: I:: Novell IPX Over Various WAN Media (IPXWAN):: (Obsoleted by RFC1551) 
1356:: PS:: Multiprotocol Interconnect on X.25 and ISDN in the Packet Mode:: (Obsoletes RFC0877) 
1347:: I:: "TCP and UDP with Bigger Addresses (TUBA), A Simple Proposal for Internet Addressing and Routing":: 
1337:: I:: TIME-WAIT Assassination Hazards in TCP:: 
1335::  :: A Two-Tier Address Structure for the Internet: A Solution to the Problem of Address Space Exhaustion:: 
1334:: PS:: PPP Authentication Protocols:: (Obsoleted by RFC1994) 
1333:: PS:: PPP Link Quality Monitoring:: (Obsoleted by RFC1989) 
1332:: PS:: The PPP Internet Protocol Control Protocol (IPCP):: (Obsoletes RFC1172) 
1331:: PS:: The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) for the Transmission of Multi-protocol Datagrams over Point-to-Point Links:: (Obsoletes RFC1171) (Obsoleted by RFC1548) 
1329:: I:: Thoughts on Address Resolution for Dual MAC FDDI Networks:: 
1326:: I:: Mutual Encapsulation Considered Dangerous:: 
1323:: PS:: TCP Extensions for High Performance:: (Obsoletes RFC1185) 
1314:: PS:: A File Format for the Exchange of Images in the Internet:: 
1307:: E:: Dynamically Switched Link Control Protocol:: 
1306:: I:: Experiences Supporting By-Request Circuit-Switched T3 Networks:: 
1294:: PS:: Multiprotocol Interconnect over Frame Relay:: (Obsoleted by RFC1490) 
1293:: PS:: Inverse Address Resolution Protocol:: 
1277:: PS:: Encoding Network Addresses to Support Operation Over Non-OSI Lower Layers:: 
1263:: I:: TCP Extensions Considered Harmful:: 
1256:: PS:: ICMP Router Discovery Messages:: 
1240:: PS:: OSI Connectionless Transport Services on top of UDP - Version: 1:: 
1237:: PS:: Guidelines for OSI NSAP Allocation in the Internet:: (Obsoleted by RFC1629) 
1236::  :: IP to X.121 Address Mapping for DDN:: 
1234:: PS:: Tunneling IPX Traffic through IP Networks:: 
1226:: E:: Internet Protocol Encapsulation of AX.25 Frames:: 
1223::  :: OSI CLNS and LLC1 Protocols on Network Systems HYPERchannel:: 
1220:: PS:: Point-to-Point Protocol Extensions for Bridging:: (Obsoleted by RFC1638) 
1219::  :: On the Assignment of Subnet Numbers:: 
1210::  :: "Network and Infrastructure User Requirements for Transatlantic Research Collaboration - Brussels, July 16-18, and Washington July 24-25, 1990":: 
1209:: DS:: The Transmission of IP Datagrams over the SMDS Service:: 
1201:: H:: Transmitting IP Traffic over ARCNET Networks:: (Obsoletes RFC1051) 
1191:: DS:: Path MTU Discovery:: 
1188:: DS:: A Proposed Standard for the Transmission of IP Datagrams over FDDI Networks:: (Obsoletes RFC1103) (Obsoleted by RFC1390) 
1185:: E:: TCP Extension for High-Speed Paths:: (Obsoleted by RFC1323) 
1172:: PS:: The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) Initial Configuration Options:: (Obsoleted by RFC1332) 
1171:: DS:: The Point-to-Point Protocol for the Transmission of Multi-Protocol Datagrams Over Point-to-Point Links:: (Obsoletes RFC1134) (Obsoleted by RFC1331) 
1166::  :: Internet Numbers:: 
1162::  :: Connectionless Network Protocol (ISO 8473) and End System to Intermediate System (ISO 9542) Management Information Base:: (Obsoleted by RFC1238) 
1151:: E:: Version 2 of the Reliable Data Protocol (RDP):: (Updates RFC0908) 
1146:: E:: TCP Alternate Checksum Options:: (Obsoletes RFC1145) 
1145:: E:: TCP Alternate Checksum Options:: (Obsoleted by RFC1146) 
1144:: PS:: Compressing TCP/IP headers for low-speed serial links:: 
1141::  :: Incremental Updating of the Internet Checksum:: (Updates RFC1071) 
1139:: PS:: Echo function for ISO 8473:: "(Obsoleted by RFC1574, RFC1575) "
1134:: PS:: Point-to-Point Protocol: A proposal for multi-protocol transmission of datagrams over Point-to-Point links:: (Obsoleted by RFC1171) 
1132:: S:: Standard for the transmission of 802.2 packets over IPX networks:: 
1122:: S:: Requirements for Internet hosts - communication layers:: (STD 3) 
1110::  :: Problem with the TCP big window option:: 
1106::  :: TCP big window and NAK options:: 
1103:: PS:: Proposed standard for the transmission of IP datagrams over FDDI Networks:: (Obsoleted by RFC1188) 
1088:: S:: Standard for the transmission of IP datagrams over NetBIOS networks:: 
1086::  :: ISO-TP0 bridge between TCP and X.25:: 
1085::  :: ISO presentation services on top of TCP/IP based internets:: 
1078::  :: TCP port service Multiplexer TCPMUX:: 
1072:: E:: TCP extensions for long-delay paths:: 
1071::  :: Computing the Internet checksum:: "(Updated by RFC1141, RFC1624) "
1070::  :: Use of the Internet as a subnetwork for experimentation with the OSI network layer:: 
1069::  :: Guidelines for the use of Internet-IP addressesin the ISO Connectionless-Mode Network Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0986) 
1063::  :: IP MTU Discovery options:: 
1062::  :: Internet numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC1020) (Obsoleted by RFC1117) 
1057:: I:: RPC: Remote Procedure Call Protocol specification version 2:: (Obsoletes RFC1050) 
1055:: S:: Nonstandard for transmission of IP datagrams over serial lines: SLIP:: 
1051:: S:: Standard for the transmission of IP datagrams and ARP packets over ARCNET networks:: (Obsoleted by RFC1201) 
1050:: H:: RPC: Remote Procedure Call Protocol specification:: (Obsoleted by RFC1057) 
1046::  :: Queuing algorithm to provide type-of-service forIP links:: 
1045:: E:: VMTP: Versatile Message Transaction Protocol: Protocol specification:: 
1044:: S:: Internet Protocol on Network System's HYPERchannel: Protocol specification:: 
1042:: S:: Standard for the transmission of IP datagrams over IEEE 802 networks:: (Obsoletes RFC0948) 
1030::  :: On testing the NETBLT Protocol over divers networks:: 
1029::  :: More fault tolerant approach to address resolution for a Multi-LAN system of Ethernets:: 
1027::  :: Using ARP to implement transparent subnet gateways:: 
1025::  :: TCP and IP bake off:: 
1016::  :: Something a host could do with source quench: The Source Quench Introduced Delay SQuID:: 
1008::  :: Implementation guide for the ISO Transport Protocol:: 
1007::  :: Military supplement to the ISO Transport Protocol:: 
1006:: S:: ISO transport services on top of the TCP: Version: 3:: (Obsoletes RFC0983) (STD 35) 
1002:: S:: Protocol standard for a NetBIOS service on a TCP/UDP transport: Detailed specifications:: (STD 19) 
1001:: S:: Protocol standard for a NetBIOS service on a TCP/UDP transport: Concepts and methods:: (STD 19) 
994::  :: "Final text of DIS 8473,Protocol for Providing the Connectionless-mode Network Service":: (Obsoletes RFC0926) 
986::  :: Guidelines for the use of Internet-IP addressesin the ISO Connectionless-Mode Network Protocol [Working draft]:: (Obsoleted by RFC1069) 
983::  :: ISO transport arrives on top of the TCP:: (Obsoleted by RFC1006) 
982::  :: Guidelines for the specification of the structure of the Domain Specific Part DSP of the ISO standard NSAP address:: 
970::  :: On packet switches with infinite storage:: 
964::  :: Some problems with the specification of the Military Standard Transmission Control Protocol:: 
963::  :: Some problems with the specification of the Military Standard Internet Protocol:: 
962::  :: TCP-4 prime:: 
955::  :: Towards a transport service for transaction processing applications:: 
948::  :: Two methods for the transmission of IP datagrams over IEEE 802.3 networks:: (Obsoleted by RFC1042) 
942::  :: Transport protocols for Department of Defense data networks:: 
941::  :: Addendum to the networkservice definition covering network layer addressing:: 
940::  :: Toward an Internet standard scheme for subnetting:: 
936::  :: Another Internet subnet addressing scheme:: 
935::  :: Reliable link layer protocols:: 
932::  :: Subnetwork addressing scheme:: 
926::  :: Protocol for providing the connectionless mode network services:: (Obsoleted by RFC0994) 
925::  :: Multi-LAN address resolution:: 
924::  :: Official ARPA-Internet protocols for connecting personal computers to the Internet:: (Obsoletes RFC0901) (Obsoleted by RFC0944) 
922:: S:: Broadcasting Internet datagrams in the presence of subnets:: (STD 5) 
919:: S:: Broadcasting Internet datagrams:: (STD 5) 
917::  :: Internet subnets:: 
914:: H:: Thinwire protocol for connecting personal computers to the Internet:: 
905::  :: ISO Transport Protocol specification ISO DP 8073:: (Obsoletes RFC0892) 
903:: S:: Reverse Address Resolution Protocol:: 
896::  :: Congestion control in IP/TCP internetworks:: 
895:: S:: Standard for the transmission of IP datagrams over experimental Ethernet networks:: 
894:: S:: Standard for the transmission of IP datagrams over Ethernet networks:: 
893::  :: Trailer encapsulations:: 
892::  :: ISO Transport Protocol specification [Draft]:: (Obsoleted by RFC0905) 
891:: S:: DCN local-network protocols:: 
889::  :: Internet delay experiments:: 
879::  :: TCP maximum segment size and related topics:: 
877:: S:: Standard for the transmission of IP datagrams over public data networks:: (Obsoleted by RFC1356) 
874::  :: Critique of X.25:: 
872::  :: TCP-on-a-LAN:: 
871::  :: Perspective on the ARPANET reference model:: 
848::  :: "Who provides the ""little"" TCP services?":: 
829::  :: Packet satellite technology reference sources:: 
826:: S:: Ethernet Address Resolution Protocol: Or converting network protocol addresses to 48.bit Ethernet address for transmission on Ethernet hardware:: 
824::  :: CRONUS Virtual Local Network:: 
815::  :: IP datagram reassembly algorithms:: 
814::  :: "Name, addresses, ports, and routes":: 
813::  :: Window and acknowlegement strategy in TCP:: 
801::  :: NCP/TCP transition plan:: 
793:: S:: Transmission Control Protocol:: (Updates RFC0761) (STD 7) 
792:: S:: Internet Control Message Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0777) (STD 5) 
791:: S:: Internet Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0760) 
789::  :: Vulnerabilities of network control protocols: An example:: 
787::  :: Connectionless data transmission survey/tutorial:: 
781::  :: Specification of the Internet Protocol IP timestamp option:: 
777::  :: Internet Control Message Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0760) (Obsoleted by RFC0792) 
768:: S:: User Datagram Protocol:: (STD 6) 
761::  :: DOD Standard Transmission Control Protocol:: (STD 7) (Updated by RFC0793) 
760::  :: DoD standard Internet Protocol:: "(Obsoleted by RFC0777, RFC0791) "
759:: H:: Internet Message Protocol:: 
730::  :: Extensible field addressing:: 
704::  :: IMP/Host and Host/IMP Protocol change:: (Obsoletes RFC0687) 
696::  :: Comments on the IMP/Host and Host/IMP Protocol changes:: 
695::  :: Official change in Host-Host Protocol:: 
692::  :: Comments on IMP/Host Protocol changes RFCs 687 and 690:: (Updates RFC0690) 
690::  :: Comments on the proposed Host/IMP Protocol changes:: (Updates RFC0687) (Updated by RFC0692) 
689::  :: Tenex NCP finite state machine for connections:: 
687::  :: IMP/Host and Host/IMP Protocol changes:: (Obsoleted by RFC0704) (Updated by RFC0690) 
685::  :: Response time in cross network debugging:: 
680::  :: Message Transmission Protocol:: (Updates RFC0561) 
675::  :: Specification of Internet Transmission Control Program:: 
674::  :: Procedure call documents - version 2:: 
660::  :: Some changes to the IMP and the IMP/Host interface:: 
632::  :: Throughput degradations for single packet messages:: 
626::  :: On a possible lockup condition in IMP subnet due to message sequencing:: 
613::  :: Network connectivity: A response to RFC 603:: (Updates RFC0603) 
611::  :: Two changes to the IMP/Host Protocol to improve user/network communications:: 
594::  :: Speedup of Host-IMP interface:: 
591::  :: Addition to the Very Distant Host specifications:: 
576::  :: Proposal for modifying linking:: 
550::  :: NIC NCP experiment:: 
548::  :: Hosts using the IMP Going Down message:: 
528::  :: Software checksumming in the IMP and network reliability:: 
521::  :: Restricted use of IMP DDT:: 
489::  :: Comment on resynchronization of connection status proposal:: 
488::  :: NLS classes at network sites:: 
476::  :: IMP/TIP memory retrofit schedule rev. 2:: (Obsoletes RFC0447) 
473::  :: MIX and MIXAL?:: 
460::  :: NCP survey:: 
459::  :: Network questionnaires:: 
450::  :: MULTICS sampling timeout change:: 
449::  :: Current flow-control scheme for IMPSYS:: (Updates RFC0442) 
445::  :: IMP/TIP preventive maintenance schedule:: 
442::  :: Current flow-control scheme for IMPSYS:: (Updated by RFC0449) 
434::  :: IMP/TIP memory retrofit schedule:: (Obsoleted by RFC0447) 
426::  :: Reconnection Protocol:: 
417::  :: Link usage violation:: 
398::  :: ICP sockets:: 
395::  :: Switch settings on IMPs and TIPs:: 
394::  :: Two proposed changes to the IMP-Host Protocol:: 
359::  :: Status of the release of the new IMP System:: (Obsoletes RFC0343) 
357::  :: Echoing strategy for satellite links:: 
348::  :: Discard process:: 
347::  :: Echo process:: 
346::  :: Satellite considerations:: 
343::  :: IMP System change notification:: (Obsoletes RFC0331) (Obsoleted by RFC0359) 
312::  :: Proposed change in IMP-to-Host Protocol:: 
301::  :: "BBN IMP #5 and NCC schedule March 4, 1971":: 
300::  :: ARPA Network mailing lists:: (Obsoletes RFC0211) (Obsoleted by RFC0303) 
271::  :: IMP System change notifications:: 
241::  :: Connecting computers to MLC ports:: 
210::  :: Improvement of flow control:: 
203::  :: Achieving reliable communication:: 
202::  :: Possible deadlock in ICP:: 
197::  :: Initial Connection Protocol - Reviewed:: 
190::  :: DEC PDP-10-IMLAC communications system:: 
178::  :: Network graphic attention handling:: 
176::  :: "Comments on ""Byte size for connections""":: 
175::  :: "Comments on ""Socket conventions reconsidered""":: 
166::  :: Data Reconfiguration Service: An implementation specification:: 
165::  :: Proffered official Initial Connection Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0145) 
161::  :: Solution to the race condition in the ICP:: 
151::  :: "Comments on a proffered official ICP: RFCs 123, 127":: (Updates RFC0127) 
150::  :: Use of IPC facilities: A working paper:: 
146::  :: Views on issues relevant to data sharing on computer networks:: 
145::  :: Initial Connection Protocol control commands:: (Obsoletes RFC0127) (Obsoleted by RFC0165) 
143::  :: Regarding proffered official ICP:: 
142::  :: Time-out mechanism in the Host-Host Protocol:: 
128::  :: Bytes:: 
127::  :: Comments on RFC 123:: (Updates RFC0123) (Obsoleted by RFC0145) (Updated by RFC0151) 
123::  :: Proffered official ICP:: "(Updates RFC0098) (Obsoletes RFC0066) (Updated by RFC0148, RFC0127) "
122::  :: Network specifications for UCSB's Simple-Minded File System:: "(Updated by RFC0269, RFC0399) "
93::  :: Initial Connection Protocol:: 
91::  :: Proposed User-User Protocol:: 
80::  :: Protocols and data formats:: 
79::  :: Logger Protocol error:: 
70::  :: Note on padding:: (Updated by RFC0228) 
67::  :: Proposed change to Host/IMP spec to eliminate marking:: 
65::  :: Comments on Host/Host Protocol document #1:: 
62::  :: Systems for interprocess communication in a resource sharing computer network:: (Obsoletes RFC0061) 
60::  :: Simplified NCP Protocol:: 
59::  :: Flow control - fixed versus demand allocation:: 
56::  :: Third level protocol: Logger Protocol:: 
55::  :: Prototypical implementation of the NCP:: 
54::  :: Official protocol proffering:: (Updated by RFC0057) 
53::  :: Official protocol mechanism:: 
41::  :: IMP-IMP teletype communication:: 
38::  :: Comments on network protocol from NWG/RFC #36:: 
33::  :: New Host-Host Protocol:: "(Obsoletes RFC0011) (Updated by RFC0036, RFC0047) "
23::  :: Transmission of multiple control messages:: 
22::  :: Host-host control message formats:: 
20::  :: ASCII format for network interchange:: 
19::  :: Two protocol suggestions to reduce congestion at swap bound nodes:: 
17::  :: Some questions re: Host-IMP Protocol:: 
12::  :: IMP-Host interface flow diagrams:: 
======================================================================
Mail
2112:: PS:: The MIME Multipart/Related Content-type:: (Obsoletes RFC1872) 
2111:: PS:: Content-ID and Message-ID Uniform Resource Locators:: 
2110:: PS:: "MIME E-mail Encapsulation of Aggregate Documents, such as HTML (MHTML)":: 
2109:: PS:: HTTP State Management Mechanism:: 
2095:: PS:: IMAP/POP AUTHorize Extension for Simple Challenge/Response:: 
2088:: PS:: IMAP4 non-synchroniziong literals:: 
2087:: PS:: IMAP4 QUOTA extension:: 
2086:: PS:: IMAP4 ACL extension:: 
2077:: PS:: The Model Primary Content Type for Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions:: 
2076:: I:: Common Internet Message Headers:: 
2062:: I:: Internet Message Access Protocol - Obsolete Syntax:: 
2061:: I:: IMAP4 COMPATIBILITY WITH IMAP2BIS:: 
2060:: PS:: INTERNET MESSAGE ACCESS PROTOCOL - VERSION 4rev1:: (Obsoletes RFC1730) 
2049:: DS:: Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part Five: Conformance Criteria and Examples:: (Obsoletes RFC1521) 
2048:: BC:: Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part Four: Registration Procedures:: (Obsoletes RFC1590) 
2047:: DS:: MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) Part Three: Message Header Extensions for Non-ASCII Text:: (Obsoletes RFC1522) 
2046:: DS:: Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part Two: Media Types:: (Obsoletes RFC1521) 
2045:: DS:: Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part One: Format of Internet Message Bodies:: (Obsoletes RFC1521) 
2034:: PS:: SMTP Service Extension for Returning Enhanced Error Codes:: 
2033:: I:: Local Mail Transfer Protocol:: 
2017:: PS:: Definition of the URL MIME External-Body Access-Type:: 
1991:: I:: PGP Message Exchange Formats:: 
1985:: PS:: SMTP Service Extension for Remote Message Queue Starting:: 
1957:: I:: Some Observations on Implementations of the Post Office Protocol (POP3):: 
1947:: I:: Greek Character Encoding for Electronic Mail Messages:: 
1939:: S:: Post Office Protocol - Version 3:: (Obsoletes RFC1725) (STD 53) 
1927:: I:: Suggested Additional MIME Types for Associating Documents:: 
1922:: I:: Chinese Character Encoding for Internet Messages:: 
1911:: E:: Voice Profile for Internet Mail:: 
1896:: I:: The text/enriched MIME Content-type:: (Obsoletes RFC1563) 
1895:: I:: The Application/CALS-1840 Content-type:: 
1894:: PS:: An Extensible Message Format for Delivery Status Notifications:: 
1893:: PS:: Enhanced Mail System Status Codes:: 
1892:: PS:: The Multipart/Report Content Type for the Reporting of Mail System Administrative Messages:: 
1891:: PS:: SMTP Service Extension for Delivery Status Notifications:: 
1873:: E:: Message/External-Body Content-ID Access Type:: 
1872:: E:: The MIME Multipart/Related Content-type:: (Obsoleted by RFC2112) 
1870:: S:: SMTP Service Extension for Message Size Declaration:: (Obsoletes RFC1653) (STD 10) 
1869:: S:: SMTP Service Extensions:: (Obsoletes RFC1651) (STD 10) 
1864:: DS:: The Content-MD5 Header Field:: (Obsoletes RFC1544) 
1854:: PS:: SMTP Service Extension for Command Pipelining:: 
1848:: PS:: MIME Object Security Services:: 
1847:: PS:: Security Multiparts for MIME: Multipart/Signed and Multipart/Encrypted:: 
1846:: E:: SMTP 521 reply code:: 
1845:: E:: SMTP Service Extension for Checkpoint/Restart:: 
1844:: I:: Multimedia E-mail (MIME) User Agent checklist:: (Obsoletes RFC1820) 
1830:: E:: SMTP Service Extensions for Transmission of Large and Binary MIME Messages:: 
1820:: I:: Multimedia E-mail (MIME) User Agent Checklist:: (Obsoleted by RFC1844) 
1806:: E:: Communicating Presentation Information in Internet Messages: The Content-Disposition Header:: 
1804:: E:: Schema Publishing in X.500 Directory:: 
1803:: I:: Recommendations for an X.500 Production Directory Service:: 
1801:: E:: MHS use of the X.500 Directory to support MHS Routing:: 
1767:: PS:: MIME Encapsulation of EDI Objects:: 
1741:: I:: MIME Content Type for BinHex Encoded Files:: 
1740:: PS:: MIME Encapsulation of Macintosh files - MacMIME:: 
1734:: PS:: POP3 AUTHentication command:: 
1733:: I:: DISTRIBUTED ELECTRONIC MAIL MODELS IN IMAP4:: 
1732:: I:: IMAP4 COMPATIBILITY WITH IMAP2 AND IMAP2BIS:: 
1731:: PS:: IMAP4 Authentication mechanisms:: 
1730:: PS:: INTERNET MESSAGE ACCESS PROTOCOL - VERSION 4:: (Obsoleted by RFC2060) 
1725:: DS:: Post Office Protocol - Version 3:: (Obsoletes RFC1460) (Obsoleted by RFC1939) 
1711:: I:: Classifications in E-mail Routing:: 
1685:: I:: Writing X.400 O/R Names:: (RTR 12) 
1653:: DS:: SMTP Service Extension for Message Size Declaration:: (Obsoletes RFC1427) (Obsoleted by RFC1870) 
1652:: DS:: SMTP Service Extension for 8bit-MIMEtransport:: (Obsoletes RFC1426) 
1651:: DS:: SMTP Service Extensions:: (Obsoletes RFC1425) (Obsoleted by RFC1869) 
1649:: I:: Operational Requirements for X.400 Management Domains in the GO-MHS Community:: 
1648:: PS:: Postmaster Convention for X.400 Operations:: 
1642:: E:: UTF-7 - A Mail-Safe Transformation Format of Unicode:: 
1641:: E:: Using Unicode with MIME:: 
1616:: I:: X.400(1988) for the Academic and Research Community in Europe:: (RTR 10) 
1615:: I:: Migrating from X.400(84) to X.400(88):: (RTR 9) 
1563:: I:: The text/enriched MIME Content-type:: (Obsoletes RFC1523) (Obsoleted by RFC1896) 
1557:: I:: Korean Character Encoding for Internet Messages:: 
1556:: I:: Handling of Bi-directional Texts in MIME:: 
1555:: I:: Hebrew Character Encoding for Internet Messages:: 
1544:: PS:: The Content-MD5 Header Field:: (Obsoleted by RFC1864) 
1524:: I:: A User Agent Configuration Mechanism For Multimedia Mail Format Information:: 
1523:: I:: The text/enriched MIME Content-type:: (Obsoleted by RFC1563) 
1522:: DS:: MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) Part Two: Message Header Extensions for Non-ASCII Text:: (Obsoletes RFC1342) (Obsoleted by RFC2047) 
1521:: DS:: MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) Part One: Mechanisms for Specifying and Describing the Format of Internet Message Bodies:: "(Obsoletes RFC1341) (Obsoleted by RFC2045, RFC2046, RFC2049) (Updated by RFC1590) "
1506:: I:: A tutorial on gatewaying between X.400 and Internet mail:: (RTR 6) 
1505:: E:: Encoding Header Field for Internet Messages:: (Obsoletes RFC1154) 
1502:: PS:: X.400 Use of Extended Character Sets:: 
1496:: PS:: Rules for downgrading messages from X.400/88 to X.400/84 when MIME content-types are present in the messages:: (Updates RFC1328) 
1495:: PS:: Mapping between X.400 and RFC-822 Message Bodies:: (Updates RFC1327) 
1494:: PS:: Equivalences between 1988 X.400 and RFC-822 Message Bodies:: 
1468:: I:: Japanese Character Encoding for Internet Messages:: 
1465:: E:: Routing coordination for X.400 MHS services within a multi protocol / multi network environment Table Format V3 for static routing:: 
1460:: DS:: Post Office Protocol - Version 3:: (Obsoletes RFC1225) (Obsoleted by RFC1725) 
1456:: I:: Conventions for Encoding the Vietnamese Language VISCII: VIetnamese Standard Code for Information Interchange VIQR: VIetnamese Quoted-Readable Specification:: 
1437:: I:: The Extension of MIME Content-Types to a New Medium:: 
1429:: I:: Listserv Distribute Protocol:: 
1428:: I:: Transition of Internet Mail from Just-Send-8 to 8Bit-SMTP/MIME:: 
1427:: PS:: SMTP Service Extension for Message Size Declaration:: (Obsoleted by RFC1653) 
1426:: PS:: SMTP Service Extension for 8bit-MIMEtransport:: (Obsoleted by RFC1652) 
1425:: PS:: SMTP Service Extensions:: (Obsoleted by RFC1651) 
1405:: E:: Mapping between X.400(1984/1988) and Mail-11 (DECnet mail):: 
1357:: I:: A Format for E-mailing Bibliographic Records:: 
1344:: I:: Implications of MIME for Internet Mail Gateways:: 
1343:: I:: A User Agent Configuration Mechanism For Multimedia Mail Format Information:: 
1342:: PS:: Representation of Non-ASCII Text in Internet Message Headers:: (Obsoleted by RFC1522) 
1341:: PS:: MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions): Mechanisms for Specifying and Describing the Format of Internet Message Bodies:: (Obsoleted by RFC1521) 
1339:: E:: Remote Mail Checking Protocol:: 
1328:: PS:: X.400 1988 to 1984 downgrading:: (Updated by RFC1496) 
1327:: PS:: Mapping between X.400(1988) / ISO 10021 and RFC 822:: (Updates RFC0822) (Obsoletes RFC1148) (Updated by RFC1495) 
1225:: DS:: Post Office Protocol - Version 3:: (Obsoletes RFC1081) (Obsoleted by RFC1460) 
1211::  :: Problems with the Maintenance of Large Mailing Lists:: 
1204:: E:: Message Posting Protocol (MPP):: 
1203:: H:: Interactive Mail Access Protocol - Version 3:: (Obsoletes RFC1064) 
1176:: E:: Interactive Mail Access Protocol - Version 2:: (Obsoletes RFC1064) 
1168::  :: Intermail and Commercial Mail Relay Services:: 
1159:: E:: Message Send Protocol:: (Obsoleted by RFC1312) 
1154:: E:: Encoding Header Field for Internet Messages:: (Updates RFC1049) (Obsoleted by RFC1505) 
1153:: E:: Digest Message Format:: 
1148:: E:: Mapping between X.400 (1988) / ISO 10021 and RFC 822:: (Obsoletes RFC0987) (Obsoleted by RFC1327) 
1138:: I:: Mapping between X.400(1988) / ISO 10021 and RFC 822:: (Updates RFC1026) 
1137:: E:: Mapping between full RFC 822 and RFC 822 with restricted encoding:: (Updates RFC0976) 
1090::  :: SMTP on X.25:: 
1082:: H:: Post Office Protocol - version 3: Extended service offerings:: 
1081:: PS:: Post Office Protocol - version 3:: (Obsoleted by RFC1225) 
1064:: H:: Interactive Mail Access Protocol: Version 2:: "(Obsoleted by RFC1203, RFC1176) "
1056:: I:: PCMAIL: A distributed mail system for personal computers:: (Obsoletes RFC0993) 
1049:: S:: Content-type header field for Internet messages:: (STD 11) (Updated by RFC1154) 
1047::  :: Duplicate messages and SMTP:: 
1026:: PS:: Addendum to RFC 987: Mapping between X.400 and RFC-822:: (Updates RFC0987) (Updated by RFC1138) 
993::  :: PCMAIL: A distributed mail system for personal computers:: (Obsoletes RFC0984) (Obsoleted by RFC1056) 
987:: PS:: Mapping between X.400 and RFC 822:: (Updates RFC0822) (Obsoleted by RFC1148) (Updated by RFC1026) 
984::  :: PCMAIL: A distributed mail system for personal computers:: (Obsoleted by RFC0993) 
976::  :: UUCP mail interchange format standard:: (Updated by RFC1137) 
974:: S:: Mail routing and the domain system:: (STD 14) 
937:: H:: Post Office Protocol - version 2:: (Obsoletes RFC0918) 
934::  :: Proposed standard for message encapsulation:: 
918::  :: Post Office Protocol:: (Obsoleted by RFC0937) 
915::  :: Network mail path service:: 
910::  :: Multimedia mail meeting notes:: 
886::  :: Proposed standard for message header munging:: 
876::  :: Survey of SMTP implementations:: 
841::  :: Specification for message format for Computer Based Message Systems:: (Obsoletes RFC0806) 
822:: S:: Standard for the format of ARPA Internet text messages:: "(Obsoletes RFC0733) (STD 11) (Updated by RFC1327, RFC0987) "
821:: S:: Simple Mail Transfer Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0788) (STD 10) 
808::  :: Summary of computer mail services meeting held at BBN on 10 January 1979:: 
807::  :: Multimedia mail meeting notes:: 
805::  :: Computer mail meeting notes:: 
788::  :: Simple Mail Transfer Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0780) (Obsoleted by RFC0821) 
786::  :: Mail Transfer Protocol: ISI TOPS20 MTP-NIMAILinterface:: 
785::  :: Mail Transfer Protocol: ISI TOPS20 file definitions:: 
784::  :: Mail Transfer Protocol: ISI TOPS20 implementation:: 
780::  :: Mail Transfer Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0772) (Obsoleted by RFC0788) 
773::  :: Comments on NCP/TCP mail service transition strategy:: 
772::  :: Mail Transfer Protocol:: (Obsoleted by RFC0780) 
771::  :: Mail transition plan:: 
767::  :: Structured format for transmission of multi-media documents:: 
763::  :: Role mailboxes:: 
757::  :: "Suggested solution to the naming, addressing, and delivery problem for ARPANET message systems":: 
754::  :: Out-of-net host addresses for mail:: 
753::  :: Internet Message Protocol:: 
744::  :: MARS - a Message Archiving and Retrieval Service:: 
733::  :: Standard for theformat of ARPA network text messages:: (Obsoletes RFC0724) (Obsoleted by RFC0822) 
724::  :: Proposed official standard for the format of ARPA Network messages:: (Obsoleted by RFC0733) 
720::  :: Address specification syntax for network mail:: 
714::  :: Host-Host Protocol for an ARPANET-type network:: 
713::  :: MSDTP-Message Services Data Transmission Protocol:: 
706::  :: On the junk mail problem:: 
577::  :: Mail priority:: 
574::  :: Announcement of a mail facility at UCSB:: 
561::  :: Standardizingnetwork mail headers:: (Updated by RFC0680) 
555::  :: Responses to critiques of the proposed mail protocol:: 
539::  :: Thoughts on the mail protocol proposed in RFC524:: 
534::  :: Lost message detection:: 
533::  :: Message-ID numbers:: 
524::  :: Proposed Mail Protocol:: 
516::  :: Lost message detection:: 
512::  :: More on lost message detection:: 
510::  :: Request for network mailbox addresses:: 
498::  :: On mail service to CCN:: 
475::  :: FTP and network mail system:: 
469::  :: Network mail meeting summary:: 
458::  :: Mail retrieval via FTP:: 
453::  :: Meeting announcement to discuss a network mail system:: 
333::  :: Proposed experiment with a Message Switching Protocol:: 
278::  :: Revision of theMail Box Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0221) 
224::  :: Comments on Mailbox Protocol:: 
221::  :: Mail Box Protocol: Version 2:: (Obsoletes RFC0196) (Obsoleted by RFC0278) 
196::  :: Mail Box Protocol:: (Obsoleted by RFC0221) 
58::  :: Logical message synchronization:: 
42::  :: Message data types:: 
======================================================================
NTP
2030:: I:: "Simple Network Time Protocol (SNTP) Version 4 for IPv4, IPv6 and OSI":: (Obsoletes RFC1769) 
1769:: I:: Simple Network Time Protocol (SNTP):: (Obsoleted by RFC2030) 
1708:: I:: NTP PICS PROFORMA For the Network Time Protocol Version 3:: 
1589:: I:: A Kernel Model for Precision Timekeeping:: 
1361:: I:: Simple Network Time Protocol (SNTP):: 
1305:: PS:: Network Time Protocol (v3):: (Obsoletes RFC1119) 
1165:: E:: Network Time Protocol (NTP) over the OSI Remote Operations Service:: 
1129::  :: Internet time synchronization: The Network Time Protocol:: 
1128::  :: Measured performance of the Network Time Protocol in the Internet system:: 
1119:: S:: Network Time Protocol version 2 specification and implementation:: (Obsoletes RFC1059) (STD 12) (Obsoleted by RFC1305) 
1059::  :: Network Time Protocol version 1 specification and implementation:: (Obsoletes RFC0958) (Obsoleted by RFC1119) 
958::  :: Network Time Protocol NTP:: (Obsoleted by RFC1059) 
957::  :: Experiments in network clock synchronization:: 
956::  :: Algorithms for synchronizing network clocks:: 
868:: S:: Time Protocol:: (STD 26) 
867:: S:: Daytime Protocol:: (STD 25) 
778:: H:: DCNET Internet Clock Service:: 
738::  :: Time server:: 
29::  :: Response to RFC 28:: 
28::  :: Time standards:: 
======================================================================
Name Serving
2053:: I:: The AM (Armenia) Domain:: 
2052:: E:: A DNS RR for specifying the location of services (DNS SRV):: 
2010:: I:: Operational Criteria for Root Name Servers:: 
1996:: PS:: A Mechanism for Prompt Notification of Zone Changes (DNS NOTIFY):: (Updates RFC1035) 
1995:: PS:: Incremental Zone Transfer in DNS:: (Updates RFC1035) 
1982:: PS:: Serial Number Arithmetic:: (Updates RFC1034) 
1956:: I:: Registration in the MIL Domain:: 
1912:: I:: Common DNS Operational and Configuration Errors:: 
1886:: PS:: DNS Extensions to support IP version 6:: 
1876:: E:: A Means for Expressing Location Information in the Domain Name System:: (Updates RFC1034) 
1794:: I:: DNS Support for Load Balancing:: 
1713:: I:: Tools for DNS debugging:: (FYI 27) 
1712:: E:: DNS Encoding of Geographical Location:: 
1706:: I:: DNS NSAP Resource Records:: (Obsoletes RFC1637) 
1664:: E:: Using the Internet DNS to Distribute RFC1327 Mail Address Mapping Tables:: 
1591:: I:: Domain Name System Structure and Delegation:: 
1537:: I:: Common DNS Data File Configuration Error:: 
1536:: I:: Common DNS Implementation Errors and Suggested Fixes.:: 
1480:: I:: The US Domain:: (Obsoletes RFC1386) 
1464:: E:: Using the Domain Name System To Store Arbitrary String Attributes:: 
1394:: I:: Relationship of Telex Answerback Codes to Internet Domains:: 
1386:: I:: The US Domain:: (Obsoleted by RFC1480) 
1348:: E:: DNS NSAP RRs:: (Updates RFC1035) (Obsoleted by RFC1637) 
1183:: E:: New DNS RR Definitions:: 
1101::  :: DNS encoding of network names and other types:: (Updates RFC1034) 
1035:: S:: Domain names - implementation and specification:: "(Obsoletes RFC0973) (STD 13) (Obsoleted by RFC2065) (Updated by RFC1348, RFC1995, RFC1996) "
1034:: S:: Domain names - concepts and facilities:: "(Obsoletes RFC0973) (STD 13) (Updated by RFC1982, RFC2065, RFC1876, RFC1101) "
1033::  :: Domain administrators operations guide:: 
1032::  :: Domain administrators guide:: 
1031::  :: MILNET name domain transition:: 
973::  :: Domain system changes and observations:: "(Updates RFC0882) (Obsoleted by RFC1034, RFC1035) "
952::  :: DoD Internet host table specification:: 
921::  :: Domain name system implementation schedule - revised:: (Updates RFC0897) 
920::  :: Domain requirements:: 
897::  :: Domain name system implementation schedule:: (Updates RFC0881) (Updated by RFC0921) 
883::  :: Domain names: Implementation specification:: 
882::  :: Domain names: Concepts and facilities:: (Updated by RFC0973) 
881::  :: Domain names plan and schedule:: (Updated by RFC0897) 
849::  :: Suggestions for improved host table distribution:: 
830::  :: Distributed system for Internet name service:: 
819::  :: Domain naming convention for Internet user applications:: 
811::  :: Hostnames Server:: (Obsoleted by RFC0953) 
810::  :: DoD Internet host table specification:: (Obsoletes RFC0608) 
799::  :: Internet name domains:: 
796::  :: Address mappings:: 
627::  :: ASCII text file of hostnames:: 
625::  :: On-line hostnames service:: 
623::  :: Comments on on-line host name service:: 
620::  :: Request for monitor host table updates:: 
608::  :: Host names on-line:: (Obsoleted by RFC0810) 
606::  :: Host names on-line:: 
289::  :: What we hope is an official list of host names:: (Obsoleted by RFC0384) 
280::  :: Draft of host names:: 
273::  :: More on standard host names:: (Obsoletes RFC0237) 
247::  :: Proffered set of standard host names:: (Obsoletes RFC0226) 
237::  :: NIC view of standard host names:: (Obsoleted by RFC0273) 
236::  :: Standard host names:: (Obsoletes RFC0229) 
233::  :: Standardization of host call letters:: 
229::  :: Standard host names:: (Obsoleted by RFC0236) 
226::  :: Standardization of host mnemonics:: (Obsoleted by RFC0247) 
======================================================================
Network Management
2128:: PS:: Dial Control Management Information Base using SMIv2:: 
2127:: PS:: ISDN Management Information Base:: 
2124:: I:: Light-weight Flow Admission Protocol Specification Version 1.0:: 
2108:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for IEEE 802.3 Repeater Devices using SMIv2:: (Updates RFC1516) (Obsoletes RFC1516) 
2096:: PS:: IP Forwarding Table MIB:: (Obsoletes RFC1354) 
2089:: I:: V2ToV1 Mapping SNMPv2 onto SNMPv1 within a bi-lingual SNMP agent:: 
2074:: PS:: Remote Network Monitoring MIB Protocol Identifiers:: 
2064:: E:: Traffic Flow Measurement: Meter MIB:: 
2063:: E:: Traffic Flow Measurement: Architecture:: 
2051:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for APPC:: 
2041:: I:: Mobile Network Tracing:: 
2039:: I:: Applicability of Standards Track MIBs to Management of World Wide Web Servers:: 
2037:: PS:: Entity MIB:: 
2024:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for Data Link Switching using SNMPv2:: 
2021:: PS:: Remote Network Monitoring Management Information Base Version 2 using SMIv2:: 
2020:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for IEEE 802.12 Interfaces:: 
2013:: PS:: SNMPv2 Management Information Base for the User Datagram Protocol using SMIv2:: (Updates RFC1213) 
2012:: PS:: SNMPv2 Management Information Base for the Transmission Control Protocol:: (Updates RFC1213) 
2011:: PS:: SNMPv2 Management Information Base for the Internet Protocol using SMIv2:: (Updates RFC1213) 
2006:: PS:: The Definitions of Managed Objects for IP Mobility Support using SMIv2:: 
1944:: I:: Benchmarking Methodology for Network Interconnect Devices:: 
1910:: E:: User-based Security Model for SNMPv2:: 
1909:: E:: An Administrative Infrastructure for SNMPv2:: 
1908:: DS:: Coexistence between Version 1 and Version 2 of the Internet-standard Network Management Framework:: (Obsoletes RFC1452) 
1907:: DS:: Management Information Base for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2):: (Obsoletes RFC1450) 
1906:: DS:: Transport Mappings for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2):: (Obsoletes RFC1449) 
1905:: DS:: Protocol Operations for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2):: (Obsoletes RFC1448) 
1904:: DS:: Conformance Statements for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2):: (Obsoletes RFC1444) 
1903:: DS:: Textual Conventions for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2):: (Obsoletes RFC1443) 
1902:: DS:: Structure of Management Information for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2):: (Obsoletes RFC1442) 
1901:: E:: Introduction to Community-based SNMPv2:: 
1857:: I:: A Model for Common Operational Statistics:: (Updates RFC1404) 
1856:: I:: The Opstat Client-Server Model for Statistics Retrieval:: 
1850:: DS:: OSPF Version 2 Management Information Base:: (Obsoletes RFC1253) 
1792:: E:: TCP/IPX Connection Mib Specification:: 
1759:: PS:: Printer MIB:: 
1757:: DS:: Remote Network Monitoring Management Information Base:: (Obsoletes RFC1271) 
1749:: PS:: IEEE 802.5 Station Source Routing MIB using SMIv2:: (Updates RFC1748) 
1748:: DS:: IEEE 802.5 MIB using SMIv2:: (Updated by RFC1749) 
1747:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for SNA Data Link Control: SDLC:: 
1743:: DS:: IEEE 802.5 MIB using SMIv2:: (Obsoletes RFC1231) 
1742:: PS:: AppleTalk Management Information Base II:: (Obsoletes RFC1243) 
1724:: DS:: RIP Version 2 MIB Extension:: (Obsoletes RFC1389) 
1697:: PS:: Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) Management Information Base (MIB) using SMIv2:: 
1696:: PS:: Modem Management Information Base (MIB) using SMIv2:: 
1695:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for ATM Management Version 8.0 using SMIv2:: 
1694:: DS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for SMDS Interfaces using SMIv2:: (Obsoletes RFC1304) 
1666:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for SNA NAUs using SMIv2:: 
1665:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for SNA NAUs using SMIv2:: 
1660:: DS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for Parallel-printer-like Hardware Devices using SMIv2:: (Obsoletes RFC1318) 
1659:: DS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for RS-232-like Hardware Devices using SMIv2:: (Obsoletes RFC1317) 
1658:: DS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for Character Stream Devices using SMIv2:: (Obsoletes RFC1316) 
1657:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for the Fourth Version of the Border Gateway Protocol (BGP-4) using SMIv2:: 
1650:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for the Ethernet-like Interface Types using SMIv2:: 
1643:: S:: Definitions of Managed Objects for the Ethernet-like Interface Types:: (Obsoletes RFC1623) (STD 50) 
1628:: PS:: UPS Management Information Base:: 
1623:: S:: Definitions of Managed Objects for the Ethernet-like Interface Types:: (Obsoletes RFC1398) (STD 50) (Obsoleted by RFC1643) 
1612:: PS:: DNS Resolver MIB Extensions:: 
1611:: PS:: DNS Server MIB Extensions:: 
1596:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for Frame Relay Service:: (Obsoleted by RFC1604) 
1595:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for the SONET/SDH Interface Type:: 
1593:: I:: SNA APPN Node MIB:: 
1592:: E:: Simple Network Management Protocol Distributed Protocol Interface Version 2.0:: (Obsoletes RFC1228) 
1573:: PS:: Evolution of the Interfaces Group of MIB-II:: (Obsoletes RFC1229) 
1567:: PS:: X.500 Directory Monitoring MIB:: 
1566:: PS:: Mail Monitoring MIB:: 
1565:: PS:: Network Services Monitoring MIB:: 
1564:: I:: DSA Metrics (OSI-DS 34 (v3)):: 
1559:: DS:: DECnet Phase IV MIB Extensions:: (Obsoletes RFC1289) 
1525:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for Source Routing Bridges:: (Obsoletes RFC1286) 
1516:: DS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for IEEE 802.3 Repeater Devices:: (Obsoletes RFC1368) (Obsoleted by RFC2108) (Updated by RFC2108) 
1515:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for IEEE 802.3 Medium Attachment Units (MAUs):: 
1514:: PS:: Host Resources MIB:: 
1513:: PS:: Token Ring Extensions to the Remote Network Monitoring MIB:: (Updates RFC1271) 
1512:: PS:: FDDI Management Information Base:: (Updates RFC1285) 
1503:: I:: Algorithms for Automating Administration in SNMPv2 Managers:: 
1493:: DS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for Bridges:: (Obsoletes RFC1286) 
1474:: PS:: The Definitions of Managed Objects for the Bridge Network Control Protocol of the Point-to-Point Protocol:: 
1473:: PS:: The Definitions of Managed Objects for the IP Network Control Protocol of the Point-to-Point Protocol:: 
1472:: PS:: The Definitions of Managed Objects for the Security Protocols of the Point-to-Point Protocol:: 
1471:: PS:: The Definitions of Managed Objects for the Link Control Protocol of the Point-to-Point Protocol:: 
1470:: I:: FYI on a Network Management Tool Catalog: Tools for Monitoring and Debugging TCP/IP Internets and Interconnected Devices:: (FYI 2) (Obsoletes RFC1147) 
1461:: PS:: SNMP MIB extension for MultiProtocol Interconnect over X.25:: 
1452:: PS:: Coexistence between version 1 and version 2 of the Internet-standard Network Management Framework:: (Obsoleted by RFC1908) 
1451:: PS:: Manager to Manager Management Information Base:: 
1450:: PS:: Management Information Base for version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2):: (Obsoleted by RFC1907) 
1449:: PS:: Transport Mappings for version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2):: (Obsoleted by RFC1906) 
1448:: PS:: Protocol Operations for version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2):: (Obsoleted by RFC1905) 
1447:: PS:: Party MIB for version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2):: 
1446:: PS:: Security Protocols for version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2):: 
1445:: PS:: Administrative Model for version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2):: 
1444:: PS:: Conformance Statements for version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2):: (Obsoleted by RFC1904) 
1443:: PS:: Textual Conventions for version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2):: (Obsoleted by RFC1903) 
1442:: PS:: Structure of Management Information for version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2):: (Obsoleted by RFC1902) 
1441:: PS:: Introduction to version 2 of the Internet-standard Network Management Framework:: 
1431:: I:: DUA Metrics:: 
1420:: PS:: SNMP over IPX:: (Obsoletes RFC1298) 
1419:: PS:: SNMP over AppleTalk:: 
1418:: PS:: SNMP over OSI:: (Obsoletes RFC1283) 
1414:: PS:: Ident MIB:: 
1407:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for the DS3/E3 Interface Type:: (Obsoletes RFC1233) 
1406:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for the DS1 and E1 Interface Types:: (Obsoletes RFC1232) 
1404:: I:: A Model for Common Operational Statistics:: (Updated by RFC1857) 
1398:: DS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for the Ethernet-like Interface Types:: (Obsoletes RFC1284) (Obsoleted by RFC1623) 
1389:: PS:: RIP Version 2 MIB Extension:: (Obsoleted by RFC1724) 
1382:: PS:: SNMP MIB Extension for the X.25 Packet Layer:: 
1381:: PS:: SNMP MIB Extension for X.25 LAPB:: 
1369:: I:: Implementation Notes and Experience for The Internet Ethernet MIB:: 
1368:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for IEEE 802.3 Repeater Devices:: (Obsoleted by RFC1516) 
1354:: PS:: IP Forwarding Table MIB:: (Obsoleted by RFC2096) 
1353:: H:: Definitions of Managed Objects for Administration of SNMP Parties:: 
1352:: H:: SNMP Security Protocols:: 
1351:: H:: SNMP Administrative Model:: 
1346:: I:: "Resource Allocation, Control, and Accounting for the Use of Network Resources":: 
1318:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for Parallel-printer-like Hardware Devices:: (Obsoleted by RFC1660) 
1317:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for RS-232-like Hardware Devices:: (Obsoleted by RFC1659) 
1316:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for Character Stream Devices:: (Obsoleted by RFC1658) 
1315:: PS:: Management Information Base for Frame Relay DTEs:: 
1304:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for the SIP Interface Type:: (Obsoleted by RFC1694) 
1303:: I:: A Convention for Describing SNMP-based Agents:: 
1298:: I:: SNMP over IPX:: (Obsoleted by RFC1420) 
1289:: PS:: DECnet Phase IV MIB Extensions:: (Obsoleted by RFC1559) 
1286:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for Bridges:: "(Obsoleted by RFC1525, RFC1493) "
1285:: PS:: FDDI Management Information Base:: (Updated by RFC1512) 
1284:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for the Ethernet-like Interface Types:: (Obsoleted by RFC1398) 
1283:: E:: SNMP over OSI:: (Obsoletes RFC1161) (Obsoleted by RFC1418) 
1273:: I:: "A Measurement Study of Changes in Service-Level Reachability in the Global TCP/IP Internet: Goals, Experimental Design, Implementation, and Policy Considerations":: 
1272:: I:: Internet Accounting: Background:: 
1271:: PS:: Remote Network Monitoring Management Information Base:: (Obsoleted by RFC1757) (Updated by RFC1513) 
1270:: I:: SNMP Communications Services:: 
1269:: PS:: Definitions of Managed Objects for the Border Gateway Protocol (Version 3):: 
1262::  :: Guidelines for Internet Measurement Activities:: 
1253:: PS:: OSPF Version 2 Management Information Base:: (Obsoletes RFC1252) (Obsoleted by RFC1850) 
1252:: PS:: OSPF Version 2 Management Information Base:: (Obsoletes RFC1248) (Obsoleted by RFC1253) 
1248:: PS:: OSPF Version 2 Management Information Base:: (Obsoleted by RFC1252) (Updated by RFC1349) 
1247:: DS:: OSPF Version 2:: (Obsoletes RFC1131) (Obsoleted by RFC1583) 
1243:: PS:: AppleTalk Management Information Base:: (Obsoleted by RFC1742) 
1242:: I:: Benchmarking Terminology for Network Interconnection Devices:: 
1239:: PS:: Reassignment of Experimental MIBs to Standard MIBs:: (Updates RFC1233) 
1238:: E:: CLNS MIB - for use with Connectionless Network Protocol (ISO 8473) and End System to Intermediate System (ISO 9542):: (Obsoletes RFC1162) 
1233:: H:: Definitions of Managed Objects for the DS3 Interface Type:: (Obsoleted by RFC1407) (Updated by RFC1239) 
1232:: H:: Definitions of Managed Objects for the DS1 Interface Type:: (Obsoleted by RFC1406) 
1231:: DS:: IEEE 802.5 Token Ring MIB:: (Obsoleted by RFC1743) 
1230:: H:: IEEE 802.4 Token Bus MIB:: 
1229:: DS:: Extensions to the Generic-Interface MIB:: (Obsoleted by RFC1573) 
1228:: E:: SNMP-DPI - Simple Network Management Protocol Distributed Program Interface:: (Obsoleted by RFC1592) 
1227:: E:: SNMP MUX Protocol and MIB:: 
1224:: E:: Techniques for Managing Asynchronously Generated Alerts:: 
1215:: I:: A Convention for Defining Traps for use with the SNMP:: 
1214:: H:: OSI Internet Management: Management Information Base:: 
1213:: S:: Management Information Base for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II:: "(Obsoletes RFC1158) (STD 17) (Updated by RFC2012, RFC2013, RFC2011) "
1212:: S:: Concise MIB Definitions:: (STD 16) 
1189:: H:: The Common Management Information Services and Protocols for the Internet:: (Obsoletes RFC1095) 
1187:: E:: Bulk Table Retrieval with the SNMP:: 
1161:: E:: SNMP over OSI:: (Obsoleted by RFC1283) 
1158:: PS:: Management Information Base for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II:: (Obsoletes RFC1156) (Obsoleted by RFC1213) 
1157:: S:: A Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP):: (Updates RFC1098) (STD 15) 
1155:: S:: Structure and Identification of Management Information for TCP/IP-based Internets:: (Updates RFC1065) (STD 17) 
1109::  :: Report of the second Ad Hoc Network Management Review Group:: 
1098::  :: Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP:: (Obsoletes RFC1067) (Updated by RFC1157) 
1095:: DS:: Common Management Information Services and Protocol over TCP/IP CMOT:: (Obsoleted by RFC1189) 
1089::  :: SNMP over Ethernet:: 
1067::  :: Simple Network Management Protocol:: (Obsoleted by RFC1098) 
1066:: H:: Management Information Base for network management of TCP/IP-based internets:: (Updated by RFC1156) 
1065:: H:: Structure and identification of management information for TCP/IP-based internets:: (Updated by RFC1155) 
1052::  :: IAB recommendations for the development of Internet network management standards:: 
1028:: H:: Simple Gateway Monitoring Protocol:: 
1024::  :: HEMS variable definitions:: 
1023::  :: HEMS monitoring and control language:: (Obsoleted by RFC1076) 
1022::  :: High-level Entity Management Protocol HEMP:: 
1021:: H:: High-level Entity Management System HEMS:: 
1012::  :: Bibliography of Request For Comments 1 through 999:: 
1011:: S:: Official Internet protocols:: (Obsoletes RFC0991) (STD 1) 
1010:: S:: Assigned numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC0990) (STD 2) (Obsoleted by RFC1060) 
996:: H:: Statistics server:: 
619::  :: Mean round-trip times in the ARPANET:: 
618::  :: Few observations on NCP statistics:: 
616::  :: Latest network maps:: 
615::  :: Proposed Network Standard Data Pathname Syntax:: 
612::  :: Traffic statistics December 1973:: 
601::  :: Traffic statistics November 1973:: 
586::  :: Traffic statistics October 1973:: 
579::  :: Traffic statistics September 1973:: 
568::  :: Response to RFC 567 - cross country network bandwidth:: (Updates RFC0567) 
567::  :: Cross country network bandwidth:: (Updated by RFC0568) 
566::  :: Traffic statistics August 1973:: 
565::  :: Storing network survey data at the datacomputer:: 
557::  :: Revelations in network host measurements:: 
546::  :: Tenex load averages for July 1973:: 
545::  :: Of what quality be the UCSB resources evaluators?:: 
538::  :: Traffic statistics June 1973:: 
531::  :: Feast or famine? A response to two recent RFC's about network information:: 
522::  :: Traffic statistics May 1973:: 
509::  :: Traffic statistics April 1973:: 
500::  :: Integration of data management systems on a computer network:: 
482::  :: Traffic statistics February 1973:: 
455::  :: Traffic statistics January 1973:: 
443::  :: Traffic statistics December 1972:: 
423::  :: UCLA Campus Computing Network liaison staff for ARPANET:: (Obsoletes RFC0389) 
422::  :: Traffic statistics November 1972:: 
421::  :: Software consulting service for network users:: 
416::  :: ARC system will be unavailable for use during Thanksgivingweek :: 
415::  :: Tenex bandwidth:: 
413::  :: Traffic statistics October 1972:: 
400::  :: Traffic statistics September 1972:: 
392::  :: Measurement of host costs for transmitting network data:: 
391::  :: Traffic statistics August 1972:: (Obsoletes RFC0378) 
389::  :: UCLA Campus Computing Network liaison staff for ARPA Network:: (Obsoleted by RFC0423) 
388::  :: NCP statistics:: (Updates RFC0323) 
384::  :: Official site idents for organizations in the ARPA Network:: (Obsoletes RFC0289) 
381::  :: Three aids to improved network operation:: 
378::  :: Traffic statistics July 1972:: (Obsoleted by RFC0391) 
369::  :: "Evaluation of ARPANET services January-March, 1972":: 
362::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0353) (Obsoleted by RFC0366) 
353::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0344) (Obsoleted by RFC0362) 
344::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0342) (Obsoleted by RFC0353) 
326::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0319) (Obsoleted by RFC0330) 
323::  :: Formation of Network Measurement Group NMG:: (Updated by RFC0388) 
308::  :: ARPANET host availability data:: 
304::  :: Data management system proposal for the ARPA network:: 
302::  :: Exercising the ARPANET:: 
274::  :: Establishing a local guide for network usage:: 
227::  :: Data transfer rates Rand/UCLA:: (Updates RFC0113) 
212::  :: NWG meeting on network usage:: (Obsoletes RFC0207) (Updated by RFC0222) 
193::  :: Network checkout:: (Obsoleted by RFC0198) 
188::  :: Data management meeting announcement:: 
156::  :: Status of the Illinois site: Response to RFC 116:: (Updates RFC0116) 
153::  :: SRI ARC-NIC status:: 
96::  :: Interactive network experiment to study modes of access tothe Network Information Center:: 
32::  :: Connecting M.I.T. computers to the ARPA Computer-to-computer communication network:: 
18::  :: [Link assignments]:: 
======================================================================
News
1036::  :: Standard for interchange of USENET messages:: (Obsoletes RFC0850) 
977:: PS:: Network News Transfer Protocol: A Proposed Standard for the Stream-Based Transmission of News:: 
850::  :: Standard for interchange of USENET messages:: (Obsoleted by RFC1036) 
======================================================================
Real Time Services
2102:: I:: Multicast Support for Nimrod : Requirements and Solution Approaches:: 
2090:: E:: TFTP Multicast Option:: 
2038:: PS:: RTP Payload Format for MPEG1/MPEG2 Video:: 
2035:: PS:: RTP Payload Format for JPEG-compressed Video:: 
2032:: PS:: RTP payload format for H.261 video streams:: 
2029:: PS:: RTP Payload Format of Sun's CellB Video Encoding:: 
2022:: PS:: Support for Multicast over UNI 3.0/3.1 based ATM Networks.:: 
1890:: PS:: RTP Profile for Audio and Video Conferences with Minimal Control:: 
1889:: PS:: RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time Applications:: 
1861:: I:: Simple Network Paging Protocol - Version 3 - Two-Way Enhanced:: 
1821:: I:: Integration of Real-time Services in an IP-ATM Network Architecture:: 
1819:: E:: Internet Stream Protocol Version 2 (ST2) Protocol Specification - Version ST2+:: (Obsoletes RFC1190) 
1789:: I:: INETPhone: Telephone Services and Servers on Internet:: 
1768:: E:: Host Group Extensions for CLNP Multicasting:: 
1703:: I:: Principles of Operation for the TPC.INT Subdomain: Radio Paging -- Technical Procedures:: 
1645:: I:: Simple Network Paging Protocol - Version 2:: (Obsoletes RFC1568) 
1614:: I:: Network Access to Multimedia Information:: (RTR 8) 
1569:: I:: Principles of Operation for the TPC.INT Subdomain: Radio Paging -- Technical Procedures:: 
1568:: I:: Simple Network Paging Protocol - Version 1(b):: (Obsoleted by RFC1645) 
1546:: I:: Host Anycasting Service:: 
1469:: PS:: IP Multicast over Token-Ring Local Area Networks:: 
1458:: I:: Requirements for Multicast Protocols:: 
1453:: I:: A Comment on Packet Video Remote Conferencing and the Transport/Network Layers:: 
1313:: I:: Today's Programming for KRFC AM 1313 Internet Talk Radio:: 
1301:: I:: Multicast Transport Protocol:: 
1257:: I:: Isochronous Applications Do Not Require Jitter-Controlled Networks:: 
1197:: I:: Using ODA for Translating Multimedia Information:: 
1193::  :: Client Requirements for Real-Time Communication Services:: 
1190:: E:: "Experimental Internet Stream Protocol, Version 2 (ST-II)":: (Obsoleted by RFC1819) 
1112:: S:: Host extensions for IP multicasting:: (Obsoletes RFC0988) (STD 5) 
1054::  :: Host extensions for IP multicasting:: (Obsoletes RFC0988) 
988::  :: Host extensions for IP multicasting:: "(Obsoletes RFC0966) (Obsoleted by RFC1112, RFC1054) "
966::  :: Host groups: A multicast extension to theInternet Protocol:: (Obsoleted by RFC0988) 
947::  :: Multi-network broadcasting within the Internet:: 
809::  :: UCL facsimile system:: 
804::  :: CCITT draft recommendation T.4 [Standardization of Group 3 facsimile apparatus for document transmission]:: 
803::  :: Dacom 450/500 facsimile data transcoding:: 
798::  :: Decoding facsimile data from the Rapicom 450:: 
769::  :: Rapicom 450 facsimile file format:: 
741::  :: Specifications for the Network Voice Protocol NVP:: 
511::  :: Enterprise phone service to NIC from ARPANET sites:: 
508::  :: Real-time data transmission on the ARPANET:: 
420::  :: CCA ICCC weather demo:: 
408::  :: NETBANK:: 
251::  :: Weather data:: 
======================================================================
Routing
2103:: I:: Mobility Support for Nimrod : Challenges and Solution Approaches:: 
2092:: I:: Protocol Analysis for Triggered RIP:: 
2091:: PS:: Triggered Extensions to RIP to Support Demand Circuits:: 
2081:: I:: RIPng Protocol Applicability Statement:: 
2080:: PS:: RIPng for IPv6:: 
2073:: PS:: An IPv6 Provider-Based Unicast Address Format:: 
2072:: I:: Router Renumbering Guide:: 
2042:: I:: Registering New BGP Attribute Types:: 
2008:: BC:: Implications of Various Address Allocation Policies for Internet Routing:: 
1998:: I:: An Application of the BGP Community Attribute in Multi-home Routing:: 
1997:: PS:: BGP Communities Attribute:: 
1992:: I:: The Nimrod Routing Architecture:: 
1987:: I:: Ipsilon's General Switch Management Protocol Specification Version 1.1:: 
1966:: E:: BGP Route Reflection An alternative to full mesh IBGP:: 
1965:: E:: Autonomous System Confederations for BGP:: 
1955:: I:: New Scheme for Internet Routing and Addressing (ENCAPS) for IPN:: 
1953:: I:: Ipsilon Flow Management Protocol Specification for IPv4 Version 1.0:: 
1940:: I:: Source Demand Routing: Packet Format and Forwarding Specification (Version 1).:: 
1930:: BC:: "Guidelines for creation, selection, and registration of an Autonomous System (AS)":: 
1925:: I:: The Twelve Networking Truths:: 
1923:: I:: RIPv1 Applicability Statement for Historic Status:: 
1863:: E:: A BGP/IDRP Route Server alternative to a full mesh routing:: 
1817:: I:: CIDR and Classful Routing:: 
1812:: PS:: Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers:: (Obsoletes RFC1716) 
1793:: PS:: Extending OSPF to Support Demand Circuits:: 
1787:: I:: Routing in a Multi-provider Internet:: 
1786:: I:: Representation of IP Routing Policies in a Routing Registry (ripe-81++):: 
1774:: I:: BGP-4 Protocol Analysis:: 
1773:: I:: Experience with the BGP-4 protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC1656) 
1772:: DS:: Application of the Border Gateway Protocol in the Internet:: (Obsoletes RFC1655) 
1771:: DS:: A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4):: (Obsoletes RFC1654) 
1765:: E:: OSPF Database Overflow:: 
1753:: I:: IPng Technical Requirements Of the Nimrod Routing and Addressing Architecture:: 
1745:: PS:: BGP4/IDRP for IP---OSPF Interaction:: 
1723:: DS:: RIP Version 2 Carrying Additional Information:: (Updates RFC1058) (Obsoletes RFC1388) 
1722:: DS:: RIP Version 2 Protocol Applicability Statement:: 
1721:: I:: RIP Version 2 Protocol Analysis:: (Obsoletes RFC1387) 
1716:: I:: Towards Requirements for IP Routers:: (Obsoletes RFC1009) (Obsoleted by RFC1812) 
1702:: I:: Generic Routing Encapsulation over IPv4 networks:: 
1701:: I:: Generic Routing Encapsulation (GRE):: 
1668:: I:: Unified Routing Requirements for IPng:: 
1656:: I:: BGP-4 Protocol Document Roadmap and Implementation Experience:: (Obsoleted by RFC1773) 
1655:: PS:: Application of the Border Gateway Protocol in the Internet:: (Obsoletes RFC1268) (Obsoleted by RFC1772) 
1654:: PS:: A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4):: (Obsoleted by RFC1771) 
1587:: PS:: The OSPF NSSA Option:: 
1586:: I:: Guidelines for Running OSPF Over Frame Relay Networks:: 
1585:: I:: MOSPF: Analysis and Experience:: 
1584:: PS:: Multicast Extensions to OSPF:: 
1583:: DS:: OSPF Version 2:: (Obsoletes RFC1247) 
1582:: PS:: Extensions to RIP to Support Demand Circuits:: 
1581:: I:: Protocol Analysis for Extensions to RIP to Support Demand Circuits:: 
1520:: I:: Exchanging Routing Information Across Provider Boundaries in the CIDR Environment:: 
1519:: PS:: Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR): an Address Assignment and Aggregation Strategy:: (Obsoletes RFC1338) 
1517:: PS:: Applicability Statement for the Implementation of Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR):: 
1504:: I:: Appletalk Update-Based Routing Protocol: Enhanced Appletalk Routing:: 
1482:: I:: Aggregation Support in the NSFNET Policy Routing Database:: 
1479:: PS:: Inter-Domain Policy Routing Protocol Specification: Version 1:: 
1478:: PS:: An Architecture for Inter-Domain Policy Routing:: 
1477:: I:: IDPR as a Proposed Standard:: 
1476:: E:: RAP: Internet Route Access Protocol:: 
1439:: I:: The Uniqueness of Unique Identifiers:: 
1403:: PS:: BGP OSPF Interaction:: (Obsoletes RFC1364) 
1397:: PS:: Default Route Advertisement In BGP2 And BGP3 Versions Of The Border Gateway Protocol:: 
1388:: PS:: RIP Version 2 Carrying Additional Information:: (Updates RFC1058) (Obsoleted by RFC1723) 
1387:: I:: RIP Version 2 Protocol Analysis:: (Obsoleted by RFC1721) 
1383:: I:: An Experiment in DNS Based IP Routing:: 
1380:: I:: IESG Deliberations on Routing and Addressing:: 
1371:: I:: "Choosing a ""Common IGP"" for the IP Internet (The IESG's Recommendation to the IAB)":: 
1370:: PS:: Applicability Statement for OSPF:: 
1364:: PS:: BGP OSPF Interaction:: (Obsoleted by RFC1403) 
1338:: I:: Supernetting: an Address Assignment and Aggregation Strategy:: (Obsoleted by RFC1519) 
1322:: I:: A Unified Approach to Inter-Domain Routing:: 
1268:: DS:: Application of the Border Gateway Protocol in the Internet:: (Obsoletes RFC1164) (Obsoleted by RFC1655) 
1267:: DS:: A Border Gateway Protocol 3 (BGP-3):: (Obsoletes RFC1163) 
1266:: I:: Experience with the BGP Protocol:: 
1265:: I:: BGP Protocol Analysis:: 
1264:: I:: Internet Routing Protocol Standardization Criteria:: 
1254:: I:: Gateway Congestion Control Survey:: 
1246:: I:: Experience with the OSPF Protocol:: 
1245:: I:: OSPF Protocol Analysis:: 
1222::  :: Advancing the NSFNET Routing Architecture:: 
1195:: PS:: Use of OSI IS-IS for Routing in TCP/IP and Dual Environments:: 
1164:: PS:: Application of the Border Gateway Protocol in the Internet:: (Obsoleted by RFC1268) 
1163:: PS:: A Border Gateway Protocol (BGP):: (Obsoletes RFC1105) (Obsoleted by RFC1267) 
1142:: I:: OSI IS-IS Intra-domain Routing Protocol:: 
1136::  :: Administrative Domains and Routing Domains: A model for routing in the Internet:: 
1133::  :: Routing between the NSFNET and the DDN:: 
1131:: PS:: OSPF specification:: (Obsoleted by RFC1247) 
1126::  :: Goals and functional requirements for inter-autonomous system routing:: 
1125::  :: Policy requirements for inter Administrative Domain routing:: 
1124::  :: Policy issues in interconnecting networks:: 
1105:: E:: Border Gateway Protocol BGP:: (Obsoleted by RFC1163) 
1104::  :: Models of policy based routing:: 
1102::  :: Policy routing in Internet protocols:: 
1092::  :: EGP and policy based routing in the new NSFNET backbone:: 
1075:: E:: Distance Vector Multicast Routing Protocol:: 
1074::  :: NSFNET backbone SPF based Interior Gateway Protocol:: 
1058:: S:: Routing Information Protocol:: "(STD 34) (Updated by RFC1723, RFC1388) "
1009:: H:: Requirements for Internet gateways:: (Obsoletes RFC0985) (STD 4) (Obsoleted by RFC1716) 
995::  :: End System to Intermediate System Routing Exchange Protocol for use in conjunction with ISO 8473:: 
985::  :: Requirements for Internet gateways - draft:: (Obsoleted by RFC1009) 
981::  :: Experimental multiple-path routing algorithm:: 
975::  :: Autonomous confederations:: 
950:: S:: Internet standard subnetting procedure:: (STD 5) 
911::  :: EGP Gateway under Berkeley UNIX 4.2:: 
904:: H:: Exterior Gateway Protocol formal specification:: (Updates RFC0827) (STD 18) 
898::  :: Gateway special interest group meeting notes:: 
890::  :: Exterior Gateway Protocol implementation schedule:: 
888::  :: STUB Exterior Gateway Protocol:: 
875::  :: "Gateways, architectures, and heffalumps":: 
827::  :: Exterior Gateway Protocol EGP:: (Updated by RFC0904) 
823:: H:: DARPA Internet gateway:: 
======================================================================
Security
2104:: I:: HMAC: Keyed-Hashing for Message Authentication:: 
2085:: PS:: HMAC-MD5 IP Authentication with Replay Prevention:: 
2084:: I:: Considerations for Web Transaction Security:: 
2082:: PS:: RIP-2 MD5 Authentication:: 
2078:: PS:: "Generic Security Service Application Program Interface, Version 2":: (Obsoletes RFC1508) 
2069:: PS:: An Extension to HTTP: Digest Access Authentication:: 
2065:: PS:: Domain Name System Security Extensions:: (Updates RFC1034) (Obsoletes RFC1035) 
2059:: I:: RADIUS Accounting:: 
2058:: PS:: Remote Authentication Dial In User Service (RADIUS):: 
2057:: I:: Source directed access control on the Internet.:: 
2040:: I:: "The RC5, RC5-CBC, RC5-CBC-Pad, and RC5-CTS Algorithms":: 
2025:: PS:: The Simple Public-Key GSS-API Mechanism (SPKM):: 
2015:: :: MIME Security with Pretty Good Privacy (PGP):: 
1984:: I:: IAB and IESG Statement on Cryptographic Technology and the Internet:: 
1969:: I:: The PPP DES Encryption Protocol (DESE):: 
1968:: PS:: The PPP Encryption Control Protocol (ECP):: 
1964:: PS:: The Kerberos Version 5 GSS-API Mechanism:: 
1961:: PS:: GSS-API Authentication Method for SOCKS Version 5:: 
1949:: E:: Scalable Multicast Key Distribution:: 
1948:: I:: Defending Against Sequence Number Attacks:: 
1938:: PS:: A One-Time Password System:: 
1929:: PS:: Username/Password Authentication for SOCKS V5:: 
1928:: PS:: SOCKS Protocol Version 5:: 
1898:: I:: CyberCash Credit Card Protocol Version 0.8:: 
1858:: I:: Security Considerations for IP Fragment Filtering:: 
1852:: E:: IP Authentication using Keyed SHA:: 
1851:: E:: The ESP Triple DES-CBC Transform:: 
1829:: PS:: The ESP DES-CBC Transform:: 
1828:: PS:: IP Authentication using Keyed MD5:: 
1827:: PS:: IP Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP):: 
1826:: PS:: IP Authentication Header:: 
1825:: PS:: Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol:: 
1824:: I:: The Exponential Security System TESS: An Identity-Based Cryptographic Protocol for Authenticated Key-Exchange (E.I.S.S.-Report 1995/4):: 
1760:: I:: The S/KEY One-Time Password System:: 
1751:: I:: A Convention for Human-Readable 128-bit Keys:: 
1750:: I:: Randomness Recommendations for Security:: 
1704:: I:: On Internet Authentication:: 
1675:: I:: Security Concerns for IPng:: 
1579:: I:: Firewall-Friendly FTP:: 
1535:: I:: A Security Problem and Proposed Correction With Widely Deployed DNS Software:: 
1511:: I:: Common Authentication Technology Overview:: 
1510:: PS:: The Kerberos Network Authentication Service (V5):: 
1509:: PS:: Generic Security Service API : C-bindings:: 
1508:: PS:: Generic Security Service Application Program Interface:: (Obsoleted by RFC2078) 
1507:: E:: DASS - Distributed Authentication Security Service:: 
1492:: I:: "An Access Control Protocol, Sometimes Called TACACS":: 
1457:: I:: Security Label Framework for the Internet:: 
1455:: E:: Physical Link Security Type of Service:: 
1424:: PS:: Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic Mail: Part IV: Key Certification and Related Services:: 
1423:: PS:: "Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic Mail: Part III: Algorithms, Modes, and Identifiers":: (Obsoletes RFC1115) 
1422:: PS:: Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic Mail: Part II: Certificate-Based Key Management:: (Obsoletes RFC1114) 
1421:: PS:: Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic Mail: Part I: Message Encryption and Authentication Procedures:: (Obsoletes RFC1113) 
1416:: E:: Telnet Authentication Option:: (Obsoletes RFC1409) 
1412:: E:: Telnet Authentication : SPX:: 
1411:: E:: Telnet Authentication: Kerberos Version 4:: 
1409:: E:: Telnet Authentication Option:: (Obsoleted by RFC1416) 
1408:: H:: Telnet Environment Option:: (Updated by RFC1571) 
1321:: I:: The MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm:: 
1320:: I:: The MD4 Message-Digest Algorithm:: (Obsoletes RFC1186) 
1319:: I:: The MD2 Message-Digest Algorithm:: (Updates RFC1115) 
1281:: I:: Guidelines for the Secure Operation of the Internet:: 
1244:: I:: Site Security Handbook:: (FYI 8) 
1186:: I:: The MD4 Message Digest Algorithm:: (Obsoleted by RFC1320) 
1170:: I:: Public Key Standards and Licenses:: 
1156:: S:: Management Information Base for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets:: (Updates RFC1066) (Obsoleted by RFC1158) 
1115:: H:: "Privacy enhancement for Internet electronic mail: Part III - algorithms, modes, and identifiers [Draft]":: (Obsoleted by RFC1423) (Updated by RFC1319) 
1114:: H:: Privacy enhancement for Internet electronic mail: Part II - certificate-based key management [Draft]:: (Obsoleted by RFC1422) 
1113:: H:: Privacy enhancement for Internet electronic mail: Part I - message encipherment and authentication procedures [Draft]:: (Obsoletes RFC0989) (Obsoleted by RFC1421) 
1108:: PS:: U.S. Department of Defense Security Options for the Internet Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC1038) 
1040::  :: Privacy enhancement for Internet electronic mail: Part I: Message encipherment and authentication procedures:: (Obsoletes RFC0989) 
1038::  :: Draft revised IP security option:: (Obsoleted by RFC1108) 
1004:: E:: Distributed-protocol authentication scheme:: 
989::  :: Privacy enhancement for Internet electronic mail: Part I: Message encipherment and authentication procedures:: "(Obsoleted by RFC1113, RFC1040) "
972::  :: Password Generator Protocol:: 
931:: E:: Authentication server:: (Obsoletes RFC0912) (Obsoleted by RFC1413) 
927::  :: TACACS user identification Telnet option:: 
912::  :: Authentication service:: (Obsoleted by RFC0931) 
644::  :: On the problem of signature authentication for network mail:: 
======================================================================
Virtual Terminal
2066:: E:: TELNET CHARSET Option:: 
1647:: PS:: TN3270 Enhancements:: 
1646:: I:: TN3270 Extensions for LUname and Printer Selection:: 
1576:: I:: TN3270 Current Practices:: 
1572:: PS:: Telnet Environment Option:: 
1571:: I:: Telnet Environment Option Interoperability Issues:: (Updates RFC1408) 
1372:: PS:: Telnet Remote Flow Control Option:: (Obsoletes RFC1080) 
1282:: I:: BSD Rlogin:: (Obsoletes RFC1258) 
1258:: I:: BSD Rlogin:: (Obsoleted by RFC1282) 
1221::  :: Host Access Protocol (HAP) Specification - Version 2:: (Updates RFC0907) 
1205::  :: 5250 Telnet Interface:: 
1184:: DS:: Telnet Linemode Option:: (Obsoletes RFC1116) 
1143::  :: The Q Method of Implementing TELNET Option Negotiation:: 
1116:: PS:: Telnet Linemode option:: (Obsoleted by RFC1184) 
1097::  :: Telnet subliminal-message option:: 
1096::  :: Telnet X display location option:: 
1091::  :: Telnet terminal-type option:: (Obsoletes RFC0930) 
1080::  :: Telnet remote flow control option:: (Obsoleted by RFC1372) 
1079::  :: Telnet terminal speed option:: 
1073::  :: Telnet window size option:: 
1053::  :: Telnet X.3 PAD option:: 
1043::  :: Telnet Data Entry Terminal option: DODIIS implementation:: (Updates RFC0732) 
1041::  :: Telnet 3270 regime option:: 
1013::  :: "X Window System Protocol, version 11: Alpha update April 1987":: 
1005::  :: ARPANET AHIP-E Host Access Protocol enhanced AHIP:: 
946::  :: Telnet terminal location number option:: 
933::  :: Output marking Telnet option:: 
930::  :: Telnet terminal type option:: (Obsoletes RFC0884) (Obsoleted by RFC1091) 
929::  :: Proposed Host-Front End Protocol:: 
907:: S:: Host Access Protocol specification:: (Updated by RFC1221) 
885::  :: Telnet end of record option:: 
884::  :: Telnet terminal type option:: (Obsoleted by RFC0930) 
878::  :: ARPANET 1822L Host Access Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0851) 
861::  :: Telnet extended options: List option:: 
860:: S:: Telnet timing mark option:: (STD 31) 
859:: S:: Telnet status option:: (Obsoletes RFC0651) (STD 30) 
858:: S:: Telnet Suppress Go Ahead option:: (STD 29) 
857:: S:: Telnet echo option:: (STD 28) 
856:: S:: Telnet binary transmission:: (STD 27) 
855:: S:: Telnet option specifications:: (STD 8) 
854:: S:: Telnet Protocol specification:: (Obsoletes RFC0764) (STD 8) 
851::  :: ARPANET 1822L Host Access Protocol:: (Obsoletes RFC0802) (Obsoleted by RFC0878) 
818:: H:: Remote User Telnet service:: 
802::  :: ARPANET 1822L Host Access Protocol:: (Obsoleted by RFC0851) 
782::  :: Virtual Terminal management model:: 
779::  :: Telnet send-location option:: 
764::  :: Telnet Protocol specification:: (Obsoleted by RFC0854) 
749::  :: Telnet SUPDUP-Output option:: 
748::  :: Telnet randomly-lose option:: 
747::  :: Recent extensions to the SUPDUP Protocol:: 
746::  :: SUPDUP graphics extension:: 
736::  :: Telnet SUPDUP option:: 
735::  :: Revised Telnet byte macro option:: (Obsoletes RFC0729) 
734:: H:: SUPDUP Protocol:: 
732::  :: Telnet Data Entry Terminal option:: (Obsoletes RFC0731) (Updated by RFC1043) 
731::  :: Telnet Data Entry Terminal option:: (Obsoleted by RFC0732) 
729::  :: Telnet byte macro option:: (Obsoleted by RFC0735) 
728::  :: Minor pitfall in the Telnet Protocol:: 
727::  :: Telnet logout option:: 
726::  :: Remote Controlled Transmission and Echoing Telnet option:: 
721::  :: Out-of-band control signals in a Host-to-Host Protocol:: 
719::  :: Discussion on RCTE:: 
718::  :: Comments on RCTE from the Tenex implementation experience:: 
703::  :: "July, 1975, survey of New-Protocol Telnet Servers":: 
702::  :: "September, 1974, survey of New-Protocol Telnet servers":: 
701::  :: "August, 1974, survey of New-Protocol Telnet servers":: 
698::  :: Telnet extended ASCII option:: 
688::  :: Tentative schedule for the new Telnet implementation for the TIP :: 
679::  :: "February, 1975, survey of New-Protocol Telnet servers":: 
669::  :: "November, 1974, survey of New-Protocol Telnet servers":: 
659::  :: Announcing additional Telnet options:: 
658::  :: Telnet output linefeed disposition:: 
657::  :: Telnet output vertical tab disposition option:: 
656::  :: Telnet output vertical tabstops option:: 
655::  :: Telnet output formfeed disposition option:: 
654::  :: Telnet output horizontal tab disposition option:: 
653::  :: Telnet output horizontal tabstops option:: 
652::  :: Telnet output carriage-return disposition option:: 
651::  :: Revised Telnet status option:: (Obsoleted by RFC0859) 
647::  :: Proposed protocol for connecting host computers to ARPA-like networks via front end processors:: 
636::  :: TIP/Tenex reliability improvements:: 
600::  :: Interfacing an Illinois plasma terminal to the ARPANET:: 
596::  :: Second thoughts on Telnet Go-Ahead:: 
595::  :: Second thoughts in defense of the Telnet Go-Ahead:: 
587::  :: Announcing new Telnet options:: 
563::  :: Comments on the RCTE Telnet option:: 
562::  :: Modifications to the Telnet specification:: 
560::  :: Remote Controlled Transmission and Echoing Telnet option:: 
559::  :: Comments on the new Telnet Protocol and its implementation:: 
513::  :: Comments on the new Telnet specifications:: 
495::  :: Telnet Protocol specifications:: (Obsoletes RFC0158) 
470::  :: Change in socket for TIP news facility:: 
466::  :: Telnet logger/server for host LL-67:: 
461::  :: Telnet Protocol meeting announcement:: 
447::  :: IMP/TIP memory retrofit schedule:: (Obsoletes RFC0434) (Obsoleted by RFC0476) 
435::  :: Telnet issues:: (Updates RFC0318) 
431::  :: Update on SMFS login and logout:: (Obsoletes RFC0399) 
399::  :: SMFS login and logout:: (Updates RFC0122) (Obsoleted by RFC0431) 
393::  :: Comments on Telnet Protocol changes:: 
386::  :: Letter to TIP users-2:: 
377::  :: Using TSO via ARPA Network Virtual Terminal:: 
365::  :: Letter to all TIP users:: 
364::  :: Serving remote users on the ARPANET:: 
352::  :: TIP site information form:: 
340::  :: Proposed Telnet changes:: 
339::  :: "MLTNET: A ""Multi Telnet"" subsystem for Tenex":: 
328::  :: Suggested Telnet Protocol changes:: 
318::  :: [Ad hoc Telnet Protocol]:: (Updates RFC0158) (Updated by RFC0435) 
311::  :: New console attachments to the USCB host:: 
297::  :: TIP message buffers:: 
296::  :: DS-1 display system:: 
231::  :: Service center standards for remote usage: Auser's view:: 
230::  :: Toward reliable operation of minicomputer-based terminals on a TIP:: 
216::  :: Telnet access to UCSB's On-Line System:: 
215::  :: "NCP, ICP, and Telnet: The Terminal IMP implementation":: 
206::  :: User Telnet - description of an initial implementation:: 
205::  :: NETCRT - a character display protocol:: 
177::  :: Device independent graphical display description:: (Updates RFC0125) (Updated by RFC0181) 
158::  :: Telnet Protocol: A proposed document:: (Updates RFC0139) (Obsoleted by RFC0495) (Updated by RFC0318) 
139::  :: Discussion of Telnet Protocol:: (Updates RFC0137) (Updated by RFC0158) 
137::  :: Telnet Protocol - a proposed document:: (Updated by RFC0139) 
110::  :: Conventions for using an IBM 2741 terminal as a user console for access to network server hosts:: (Updated by RFC0135) 
97::  :: First cut at a proposed Telnet Protocol:: 
======================================================================
Other
2123:: I:: Traffic Flow Measurement: Experiences with NeTraMet:: 
2121:: I:: Issues affecting MARS Cluster Size:: 
2119:: BC:: Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels:: 
2101:: I:: IPv4 Address Behaviour Today:: 
2100:: I:: The Naming of Hosts:: 
2099:: I:: Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 2000-2099:: 
2083:: I:: PNG (Portable Network Graphics) Specification Version 1.0:: 
2071:: I:: Network Renumbering Overview: Why would I want it and what is it anyway?:: 
2050:: BC:: INTERNET REGISTRY IP ALLOCATION GUIDELINES:: (Obsoletes RFC1466) 
2036:: I:: Observations on the use of Components of the Class A Address Space within the Internet:: 
2031:: I:: IETF-ISOC relationship:: 
2028:: BC:: The Organizations Involved in the IETF Standards Process:: 
2027:: BC:: "IAB and IESG Selection, Confirmation, and Recall Process: Operation of the Nominating and Recall Committees":: 
2026:: BC:: The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3:: (Obsoletes RFC1602) 
2014:: BC:: IRTF Research Group Guidelines and Procedures:: 
2007:: I:: Catalogue of Network Training Materials:: (FYI 29) 
2000:: S:: INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS:: (STD 1) 
1999:: I:: Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1900-1999:: 
1988:: I:: Conditional Grant of Rights to Specific Hewlett-Packard Patents In Conjunction With the Internet Engineering Task Force's Internet-Standard Network Management Framework:: 
1983:: I:: Internet Users' Glossary:: (FYI 18) (Obsoletes RFC1392) 
1958:: I:: Architectural Principles of the Internet:: 
1952:: I:: GZIP file format specification version 4.3:: 
1951:: I:: DEFLATE Compressed Data Format Specification version 1.3:: 
1950:: I:: ZLIB Compressed Data Format Specification version 3.3:: 
1941:: I:: Frequently Asked Questions for Schools:: (FYI 22) (Obsoletes RFC1578) 
1935:: I:: "What is the Internet, Anyway?":: 
1920:: S:: INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS:: (Obsoletes RFC1880) (STD 1) 
1900:: I:: Renumbering Needs Work:: 
1899:: I:: Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1800-1899:: 
1882:: I:: The 12-Days of Technology Before Christmas:: 
1880:: S:: INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS:: (Obsoletes RFC1800) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC1920) 
1879:: I:: Class A Subnet Experiment Results and Recommendations:: 
1875:: I:: UNINETT PCA Policy Statements:: 
1871:: BC:: Addendum to RFC 1602 -- Variance Procedure:: (Updates RFC1602) 
1855:: I:: Netiquette Guidelines:: (FYI 28) 
1822:: I:: A Grant of Rights to Use a Specific IBM patent with Photuris:: 
1818:: S:: Best Current Practices:: 
1816:: I:: U.S. Government Internet Domain Names:: (Obsoletes RFC1811) 
1814:: I:: Unique Addresses are Good:: 
1811:: I:: U.S. Government Internet Domain Names:: (Obsoleted by RFC1816) 
1810:: I:: Report on MD5 Performance:: 
1805:: I:: Location-Independent Data/Software Integrity Protocol:: 
1802:: I:: Introducing Project Long Bud: Internet Pilot Project for the Deployment of X.500 Directory Information in Support of X.400 Routing:: 
1800:: S:: INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS:: (Obsoletes RFC1780) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC1880) 
1799:: I:: Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1700-1799:: 
1797:: E:: Class A Subnet Experiment:: 
1796:: I:: Not All RFCs are Standards:: 
1790:: I:: "An Agreement between the Internet Society and Sun Microsystems, Inc. in the Matter of ONC RPC and XDR Protocols":: 
1780:: S:: INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS:: (Obsoletes RFC1720) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC1800) 
1776:: I:: The Address is the Message:: 
1775:: I:: "To Be ""On"" the Internet":: 
1758:: I:: NADF Standing Documents: A Brief Overview:: 
1746:: I:: Ways to Define User Expectations:: 
1739:: I:: A Primer On Internet and TCP/IP Tools:: 
1720:: S:: INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS:: (Obsoletes RFC1610) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC1780) 
1718:: I:: The Tao of IETF - A Guide for New Attendees of the Internet Engineering Task Force:: (FYI 17) (Obsoletes RFC1539) 
1715:: I:: The H Ratio for Address Assignment Efficiency:: 
1709:: I:: K-12 Internetworking Guidelines:: (FYI 26) 
1700:: S:: ASSIGNED NUMBERS:: (Obsoletes RFC1340) (STD 2) 
1699:: I:: Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1600-1699:: 
1691:: I:: The Document Architecture for the Cornell Digital Library:: 
1690:: I:: Introducing the Internet Engineering and Planning Group (IEPG):: 
1689:: I:: A Status Report on Networked Information Retrieval: Tools and Groups:: (FYI 25) (RTR 13) 
1640:: I:: The Process for Organization of Internet Standards Working Group (POISED):: 
1636:: I:: "Report of IAB Workshop on Security in the Internet Architecture - February 8-10, 1994":: 
1635:: I:: How to Use Anonymous FTP:: (FYI 24) 
1627:: I:: Network 10 Considered Harmful (Some Practices Shouldn't be Codified):: (Updated by RFC1918) 
1610:: S:: INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS:: (Obsoletes RFC1600) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC1720) 
1607:: I:: A VIEW FROM THE 21ST CENTURY:: 
1606:: I:: A Historical Perspective On The Usage Of IP Version 9:: 
1603:: I:: IETF Working Group Guidelines and Procedures:: 
1602:: I:: The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 2:: (Obsoletes RFC1310) (Obsoleted by RFC2026) (Updated by RFC1871) 
1601:: I:: Charter of the Internet Architecture Board (IAB):: (Obsoletes RFC1358) 
1600:: S:: INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS:: (Obsoletes RFC1540) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC1610) 
1599:: I:: Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1500 - 1599:: 
1597:: I:: Address Allocation for Private Internets:: (Obsoleted by RFC1918) 
1594:: I:: FYI on Questions and Answer Answers to Commonly asked ``New Internet User'' Questions:: (FYI 4) (Obsoletes RFC1325) 
1580:: I:: Guide to Network Resource Tools:: (FYI 23) 
1578:: I:: FYI on Questions and Answers: Answers to Commonly Asked ``Primary and Secondary School Internet User'' Questions:: (FYI 22) (Obsoleted by RFC1941) 
1574:: I:: Essential Tools for the OSI Internet:: (Obsoletes RFC1139) 
1550:: I:: IP: Next Generation (IPng) White Paper Solicitation:: 
1543:: I:: Instructions to RFC Authors:: (Obsoletes RFC1111) 
1540:: S:: INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS:: (Obsoletes RFC1500) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC1600) 
1539:: I:: The Tao of IETF - A Guide for New Attendees of the Internet Engineering Task Force:: (FYI 17) (Obsoletes RFC1391) (Obsoleted by RFC1718) 
1527:: I:: What Should We Plan Given the Dilemma of the Network?:: 
1501:: I:: OS/2 User Group:: 
1500:: S:: INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS:: (Obsoletes RFC1410) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC1540) 
1499:: I:: Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1400-1499:: 
1481:: I:: IAB Recommendation for an Intermediate Strategy to Address the Issue of Scaling:: 
1467:: I:: Status of CIDR Deployment in the Internet:: (Obsoletes RFC1367) 
1463:: I:: FYI on Introducing the Internet--A Short Bibliography of Introductory Internetworking Readings for the Network Novice:: (FYI 19) 
1462:: I:: FYI on ``What is the Internet?'':: (FYI 20) 
1438:: I:: Internet Engineering Task Force Statements Of Boredom (SOBs):: 
1432:: I:: Recent Internet Books:: 
1417:: I:: NADF Standing Documents: A Brief Overview:: (Obsoletes RFC1295) 
1410:: S:: IAB OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS:: (Obsoletes RFC1360) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC1500) 
1402:: I:: There's Gold in them thar Networks! Searching for Treasure in all the Wrong Places:: (FYI 10) (Obsoletes RFC1290) 
1401:: I:: Correspondence between the IAB and DISA on the use of DNS throughout the Internet:: 
1399:: I:: Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1300-1399:: 
1396:: I:: The Process for Organization of Internet Standards Working Group (POISED):: 
1392:: I:: Internet Users' Glossary:: (FYI 18) (Obsoleted by RFC1983) 
1391:: I:: The Tao of IETF: A Guide for New Attendees of the Internet Engineering Task Force:: (FYI 17) (Obsoleted by RFC1539) 
1367:: I:: Schedule for IP Address Space Management Guidelines:: (Obsoleted by RFC1467) 
1366:: I:: Guidelines for Management of IP Address Space:: (Obsoleted by RFC1466) 
1360:: S:: IAB OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS:: (Obsoletes RFC1280) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC1410) 
1359:: I:: Connecting to the Internet What Connecting Institutions Should Anticipate:: (FYI 16) 
1358:: I:: Charter of the Internet Architecture Board (IAB):: (Obsoleted by RFC1601) 
1349:: PS:: Type of Service in the Internet Protocol Suite:: (Updates RFC1248) 
1340:: S:: ASSIGNED NUMBERS:: (Obsoletes RFC1060) (STD 2) (Obsoleted by RFC1700) 
1336:: I:: "Who's Who in the Internet Biographies of IAB, IESG and IRSG Members":: (FYI 9) (Obsoletes RFC1251) 
1325:: I:: FYI on Questions and Answers Answers to Commonly asked ``New Internet User'' Questions:: (FYI 4) (Obsoletes RFC1206) (Obsoleted by RFC1594) 
1324:: I:: A Discussion on Computer Network Conferencing:: 
1311:: I:: Introduction to the STD Notes:: 
1310:: I:: The Internet Standards Process:: (Obsoleted by RFC1602) 
1300:: I:: Remembrances of Things Past:: 
1299:: I:: Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1200-1299:: 
1297:: I:: NOC Internal Integrated Trouble Ticket System Functional Specification Wishlist (``NOC TT REQUIREMENTS''):: 
1296:: I:: Internet Growth (1981-1991):: 
1295:: I:: User Bill of Rights for entries and listings in the Public Directory:: (Obsoleted by RFC1417) 
1291:: I:: Mid-Level Networks: Potential Technical Services:: 
1290:: I:: There's Gold in them thar Networks! or Searching for Treasure in all the Wrong Places:: (FYI 10) (Obsoleted by RFC1402) 
1287:: I:: Towards the Future Internet Architecture:: 
1280:: S:: IAB OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS:: (Obsoletes RFC1250) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC1360) 
1261:: I:: Transition of NIC Services:: 
1259:: I:: Building The Open Road: The NREN As Test-Bed For The National Public Network:: 
1251::  :: "Who's Who in the Internet: Biographies of IAB, IESG and IRSG Members":: (FYI 9) (Obsoleted by RFC1336) 
1250:: S:: IAB Official Protocol Standards:: (Obsoletes RFC1200) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC1280) 
1249:: I:: DIXIE Protocol Specification:: 
1217::  :: Memo from the Consortium for Slow Commotion Research (CSCR):: 
1216::  :: Gigabit Network Economics and Paradigm Shifts:: 
1208::  :: A Glossary of Networking Terms:: 
1207::  :: Answers to Commonly asked ``Experienced Internet User'' Questions:: (FYI 7) 
1206::  :: FYI on Questions and Answers - Answers to Commonly asked ``New Internet User'' Questions:: (FYI 4) (Obsoletes RFC1177) (Obsoleted by RFC1325) 
1200:: S:: IAB Official Protocol Standards:: (Obsoletes RFC1140) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC1250) 
1199:: I:: Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1100-1199:: 
1198:: I:: FYI on the X Window System:: 
1192::  :: Commercialization of the Internet Summary Report:: 
1181::  :: RIPE Terms of Reference:: 
1180::  :: A TCP/IP Tutorial:: 
1178::  :: Choosing a Name for Your Computer:: (FYI 5) 
1177::  :: FYI on Questions and Answers - Answers to Commonly Asked ``New Internet User'' Questions:: (FYI 4) (Obsoleted by RFC1206) 
1175::  :: FYI on Where to Start - A Bibliography of Internetworking Information:: (FYI 3) 
1174:: I:: "IAB Recommended Policy on Distributing Internet Identifier Assignment and IAB Recommended Policy Change to Internet ""Connected"" Status":: 
1173::  :: "Responsibilities of Host and Network Managers A Summary of the ""Oral Tradition"" of the Internet":: 
1169::  :: Explaining the Role of GOSIP:: 
1167::  :: Thoughts on the National Research and Education Network:: 
1160::  :: The Internet Activities Board:: (Updates RFC1120) 
1152::  :: Workshop Report: Internet Research Steering Group Workshop on Very-High-Speed Networks:: 
1150:: I:: F.Y.I. on F.Y.I.: Introduction to the F.Y.I. notes:: (FYI 1) 
1149::  :: A Standard for the Transmission of IP Datagrams on Avian Carriers:: 
1147:: I:: FYI on a Network Management Tool Catalog: Tools for Monitoring and Debugging TCP/IP Internets and Interconnected Devices:: (FYI 2) (Obsoleted by RFC1470) 
1140:: S:: IAB Official Protocol Standards:: (Obsoletes RFC1130) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC1200) 
1135::  :: Helminthiasis of the Internet:: 
1130:: S:: IAB official protocol standards:: (Obsoletes RFC1100) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC1140) 
1127::  :: Perspective on the Host Requirements RFCs:: 
1121::  :: Act one - the poems:: 
1120::  :: Internet Activities Board:: (Updated by RFC1160) 
1118::  :: Hitchhikers guide to the Internet:: 
1117::  :: Internet numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC1062) 
1111::  :: Request for comments on Request for Comments: Instructions to RFC authors:: (Obsoletes RFC0825) (Obsoleted by RFC1543) 
1100:: S:: IAB official protocol standards:: (Obsoletes RFC1083) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC1130) 
1099:: I:: Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1000-1099:: 
1093::  :: NSFNET routing architecture:: 
1087::  :: Ethics and the Internet:: 
1083:: S:: IAB official protocol standards:: (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC1100) 
1077::  :: Critical issues in high bandwidth networking:: 
1076::  :: HEMS monitoring and control language:: (Obsoletes RFC1023) 
1060:: S:: ASSIGNED NUMBERS:: (Obsoletes RFC1010) (STD 2) (Obsoleted by RFC1340) 
1039::  :: DoD statement on Open Systems Interconnection protocols:: (Obsoletes RFC0945) 
1020::  :: Internet numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC0997) (Obsoleted by RFC1062) 
1019::  :: Report of the Workshop on Environments for Computational Mathematics:: 
1018::  :: Some comments on SQuID:: 
1017::  :: Network requirements for scientific research: Internet task force on scientific computing:: 
1015::  :: Implementation plan for interagency research Internet:: 
1014::  :: XDR: External Data Representation standard:: 
1000::  :: Request For Comments reference guide:: (Obsoletes RFC0999) 
999::  :: Requests For Comments summary notes: 900-999:: (Obsoleted by RFC1000) 
997::  :: Internet numbers:: (Updates RFC0990) (Obsoleted by RFC1020) 
992::  :: On communication support for fault tolerant process groups:: 
991:: S:: Official ARPA-Internet protocols:: (Obsoletes RFC0961) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC1011) 
990::  :: Assigned numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC0960) (Obsoleted by RFC1010) (Updated by RFC0997) 
980::  :: Protocol document order information:: 
979::  :: PSN End-to-End functional specification:: 
968::  :: Twas the night before start-up:: 
967::  :: All victims together:: 
961:: S:: Official ARPA-Internet protocols:: (Obsoletes RFC0944) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC0991) 
960::  :: Assigned numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC0943) (Obsoleted by RFC0990) 
945::  :: DoD statement on the NRC report:: (Obsoleted by RFC1039) 
944:: S:: Official ARPA-Internet protocols:: (Obsoletes RFC0924) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC0961) 
943::  :: Assigned numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC0923) (Obsoleted by RFC0960) 
939::  :: Executive summary of the NRC report on transport protocols for Department of Defense data networks:: 
938:: E:: Internet Reliable Transaction Protocol functional and interface specification:: 
928::  :: Introduction to proposed DoD standard H-FP:: 
923::  :: Assigned numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC0900) (Obsoleted by RFC0943) 
909:: E:: Loader Debugger Protocol:: 
908:: E:: Reliable Data Protocol:: (Updated by RFC1151) 
902::  :: ARPA Internet Protocol policy:: 
901:: S:: Official ARPA-Internet protocols:: (Obsoletes RFC0880) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC0924) 
900::  :: Assigned Numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC0870) (Obsoleted by RFC0923) 
899::  :: Request For Comments summary notes: 800-899:: 
880:: S:: Official protocols:: (Obsoletes RFC0840) (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC0901) 
873::  :: Illusion of vendor support:: 
870::  :: Assigned numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC0820) (Obsoleted by RFC0900) 
869:: H:: Host Monitoring Protocol:: 
852::  :: ARPANET short blocking feature:: 
847::  :: Summary of Smallberg surveys:: (Obsoletes RFC0846) 
846::  :: Who talks TCP? - survey of 22 February 1983:: (Obsoletes RFC0845) (Obsoleted by RFC0847) 
845::  :: Who talks TCP? - survey of 15 February 1983:: (Obsoletes RFC0843) (Obsoleted by RFC0846) 
844::  :: "Who talks ICMP, too? - Survey of 18 February 1983":: (Updates RFC0843) 
843::  :: Who talks TCP? - survey of 8 February 83:: (Obsoletes RFC0842) (Obsoleted by RFC0845) (Updated by RFC0844) 
842::  :: Who talks TCP? - survey of 1 February 83:: (Obsoletes RFC0839) (Obsoleted by RFC0843) 
840:: S:: Official protocols:: (STD 1) (Obsoleted by RFC0880) 
839::  :: Who talks TCP?:: (Obsoletes RFC0838) (Obsoleted by RFC0842) 
838::  :: Who talks TCP?:: (Obsoletes RFC0837) (Obsoleted by RFC0839) 
837::  :: Who talks TCP?:: (Obsoletes RFC0836) (Obsoleted by RFC0838) 
836::  :: Who talks TCP?:: (Obsoletes RFC0835) (Obsoleted by RFC0837) 
835::  :: Who talks TCP?:: (Obsoletes RFC0834) (Obsoleted by RFC0836) 
834::  :: Who talks TCP?:: (Obsoletes RFC0833) (Obsoleted by RFC0835) 
833::  :: Who talks TCP?:: (Obsoletes RFC0832) (Obsoleted by RFC0834) 
832::  :: Who talks TCP?:: (Obsoleted by RFC0833) 
831::  :: Backup access to the European side of SATNET:: 
828::  :: "Data communications: IFIP's international ""network"" of experts":: 
825::  :: Request for comments on Requests For Comments:: (Obsoleted by RFC1111) 
820::  :: Assigned numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC0790) (Obsoleted by RFC0870) 
817::  :: Modularity and efficiency in protocol implementation:: 
816::  :: Fault isolation and recovery:: 
806::  :: Proposed Federal Information Processing Standard: Specification for message format for computer based message systems:: (Obsoleted by RFC0841) 
800::  :: Request For Comments summary notes: 700-799:: 
794::  :: Pre-emption:: 
790::  :: Assigned numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC0776) (Obsoleted by RFC0820) 
776::  :: Assigned numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC0770) (Obsoleted by RFC0790) 
774::  :: Internet Protocol Handbook: Table of contents:: (Obsoletes RFC0766) 
770::  :: Assigned numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC0762) (Obsoleted by RFC0776) 
766::  :: Internet Protocol Handbook: Table of contents:: (Obsoleted by RFC0774) 
762::  :: Assigned numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC0758) (Obsoleted by RFC0770) 
758::  :: Assigned numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC0755) (Obsoleted by RFC0762) 
755::  :: Assigned numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC0750) (Obsoleted by RFC0758) 
750::  :: Assigned numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC0739) (Obsoleted by RFC0755) 
745::  :: JANUS interface specifications:: 
739::  :: Assigned numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC0604) (Obsoleted by RFC0750) 
717::  :: Assigned network numbers:: 
716::  :: Interim revision to Appendix F of BBN 1822:: 
708::  :: Elements of a distributed programming system:: 
705::  :: Front-end Protocol B6700 version:: 
700::  :: Protocol experiment:: 
699::  :: Request For Comments summary notes: 600-699:: 
694::  :: Protocol information:: 
686::  :: Leaving well enough alone:: 
684::  :: Commentary on procedure calling as a network protocol:: 
681::  :: Network UNIX:: 
678::  :: Standard file formats:: 
677::  :: Maintenance of duplicate databases:: 
672::  :: Multi-site data collection facility:: 
671::  :: Note on Reconnection Protocol:: 
667::  :: BBN host ports:: 
666::  :: Specification of the Unified User-Level Protocol:: 
663::  :: Lost message detection and recovery protocol:: 
661::  :: Protocol information:: 
645::  :: Network Standard Data Specification syntax:: 
643::  :: Network Debugging Protocol:: 
642::  :: Ready line philosophy and implementation:: 
638::  :: IMP/TIP preventive maintenance schedule:: (Obsoletes RFC0633) 
637::  :: Change of network address for SU-DSL:: 
635::  :: Assessment of ARPANET protocols:: 
634::  :: Change in network address for Haskins Lab:: 
631::  :: International meeting on minicomputers and data communication: Call for papers:: 
629::  :: Scenario for using the Network Journal:: 
628::  :: Status of RFC numbers and a note on pre-assigned journal numbers :: 
621::  :: NIC user directories at SRI ARC:: 
617::  :: Note on socket number assignment:: 
609::  :: Statement of upcoming move of NIC/NLS service:: 
604::  :: Assigned link numbers:: (Obsoletes RFC0317) (Obsoleted by RFC0739) 
603::  :: Response to RFC 597: Host status:: (Updates RFC0597) (Updated by RFC0613) 
602::  :: The stockings were hung by the chimney with care:: 
598::  :: "RFC index - December 5, 1973":: 
597::  :: Host status:: (Updated by RFC0603) 
590::  :: MULTICS address change:: 
588::  :: London node is now up:: 
585::  :: ARPANET users interest working group meeting:: 
584::  :: Charter for ARPANET Users Interest Working Group:: 
582::  :: Comments on RFC 580: Machine readable protocols:: (Updates RFC0580) 
581::  :: Corrections to RFC 560: Remote Controlled Transmission and Echoing Telnet option:: 
580::  :: Note to protocol designers and implementers:: (Updated by RFC0582) 
578::  :: Using MIT-Mathlab MACSYMA from MIT-DMS Muddle:: 
569:: H:: NETED: A common editor for the ARPA network:: 
552::  :: Single access to standard protocols:: 
547::  :: Change to the Very Distant Host specification:: 
544::  :: Locating on-line documentation at SRI-ARC:: 
537::  :: Announcement of NGG meeting July 16-17:: 
530::  :: Report on the Survey project:: 
529::  :: Note on protocol synch sequences:: 
527::  :: ARPAWOCKY:: 
526::  :: Technical meeting: Digital image processing software systems:: 
523::  :: SURVEY is in operation again:: 
519::  :: Resource evaluation:: 
518::  :: ARPANET accounts:: 
515::  :: Specifications for datalanguage: Version 0/9:: 
503::  :: Socket number list:: (Obsoletes RFC0433) 
496::  :: TNLS quick reference card is available:: 
494::  :: Availability of MIX and MIXAL in the Network:: 
492::  :: Response to RFC 467:: (Updates RFC0467) 
491::  :: "What is ""Free""?":: 
483::  :: Cancellation of the resource notebook framework meeting:: 
474::  :: Announcement of NGWG meeting: Call for papers:: 
464::  :: Resource notebook framework:: 
462::  :: Responding to user needs:: 
457::  :: TIPUG:: 
456::  :: Memorandum: Date change of mail meeting:: 
441::  :: Inter-Entity Communication - an experiment:: 
440::  :: Scheduled network software maintenance:: 
439::  :: PARRY encounters the DOCTOR:: 
433::  :: Socket number list:: (Obsoletes RFC0349) (Obsoleted by RFC0503) 
432::  :: Network logical map:: 
425::  :: But my NCP costs $500 a day:: 
419::  :: To: Network liaisons and station agents:: 
405::  :: Correction to RFC 404:: (Obsoletes RFC0404) 
404::  :: Host address changes involving Rand and ISI:: (Obsoleted by RFC0405) 
403::  :: Desirability of a network 1108 service:: 
402::  :: ARPA Network mailing lists:: (Obsoletes RFC0363) 
401::  :: Conversion of NGP-0 coordinates to device specific coordinates :: 
390::  :: TSO scenario:: 
379::  :: Using TSO at CCN:: 
376::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0370) 
372::  :: Notes on a conversation with Bob Kahn on the ICCC:: 
371::  :: Demonstration at International Computer Communications Conference:: 
370::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0367) (Obsoleted by RFC0376) 
363::  :: ARPA Network mailing lists:: (Obsoletes RFC0329) (Obsoleted by RFC0402) 
356::  :: ARPA Network Control Center:: 
355::  :: Response to NWG/RFC 346:: 
350::  :: User accounts for UCSB On-Line System:: 
349::  :: Proposed standard socket numbers:: (Obsoleted by RFC0433) 
345::  :: Interest in mixed integer programming MPSX on NIC 360/91 at CCN:: 
334::  :: Network use on May 8:: 
331::  :: IMP System change notification:: (Obsoleted by RFC0343) 
330::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0326) (Obsoleted by RFC0332) 
329::  :: ARPA Network mailing lists:: (Obsoletes RFC0303) (Obsoleted by RFC0363) 
327::  :: Data and File Transfer workshop notes:: 
322::  :: Well known socket numbers:: 
321::  :: CBI networking activity at MITRE:: 
320::  :: Workshop on hard copy line printers:: 
319::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0315) (Obsoleted by RFC0326) 
317::  :: Official Host-Host Protocol modification: Assigned link numbers:: (Obsoleted by RFC0604) 
316::  :: ARPA Network Data Management Working Group:: 
315::  :: Network host status:: (Obsoletes RFC0306) (Obsoleted by RFC0319) 
313::  :: Computer based instruction:: 
305::  :: Unknown host numbers:: 
303::  :: ARPA Network mailing lists:: (Obsoletes RFC0300) (Obsoleted by RFC0329) 
295::  :: "Report of the Protocol Workshop, 12 October 1971":: 
291::  :: Data management meeting announcement:: 
290::  :: Computer networks and data sharing: A bibliography:: (Obsoletes RFC0243) 
282::  :: Graphics meeting report:: 
276::  :: NIC course:: 
270::  :: Correction to BBN Report No. 1822 NIC NO 7958:: 
269::  :: Some experience with file transfer:: (Updates RFC0122) 
263::  :: Very Distant Host interface:: 
256::  :: IMPSYS change notification:: 
254::  :: Scenarios for using ARPANET computers:: 
253::  :: Second Network Graphics meeting details:: 
249::  :: Coordination of equipment and supplies purchase:: 
246::  :: Network Graphics meeting:: 
245::  :: Reservations for Network Group meeting:: 
243::  :: Network and data sharing bibliography:: (Obsoleted by RFC0290) 
242::  :: Data descriptive language for shared data:: 
240::  :: Site status:: (Obsoletes RFC0235) (Obsoleted by RFC0252) 
239::  :: Host mnemonics proposed in RFC 226 NIC 7625:: 
235::  :: Site status:: (Obsoleted by RFC0240) 
234::  :: Network Working Group meeting schedule:: (Updates RFC0222) 
232::  :: Postponement of network graphics meeting:: 
228::  :: Clarification:: (Updates RFC0070) 
225::  :: Rand/UCSB network graphics experiment:: (Updates RFC0074) 
223::  :: Network Information Center schedule for network users:: 
219::  :: User's view of the datacomputer:: 
218::  :: Changing the IMP status reporting facility:: 
214::  :: Network checkpoint:: (Obsoletes RFC0198) 
213::  :: IMP System change notification:: 
211::  :: ARPA Network mailing lists:: (Obsoletes RFC0168) (Obsoleted by RFC0300) 
209::  :: Host/IMP interface documentation:: 
208::  :: Address tables:: 
207::  :: September Network Working Group meeting:: (Obsoleted by RFC0212) 
204::  :: Sockets in use:: 
200::  :: RFC list by number:: (Obsoletes RFC0170) 
198::  :: Site certification - Lincoln Labs 360/67:: (Obsoletes RFC0193) (Obsoleted by RFC0214) 
195::  :: Data computers-data descriptions and access language:: 
194::  :: Data Reconfiguration Service - compiler/interpreter implementation notes:: 
187::  :: Network/440 protocol concept:: 
186::  :: Network graphics loader:: 
185::  :: NIC distribution of manuals and handbooks:: 
182::  :: Compilation of list of relevant site reports:: 
180::  :: File system questionnaire:: 
179::  :: Link number assignments:: (Updates RFC0107) 
173::  :: Network data management committee meeting announcement:: 
171::  :: Data Transfer Protocol:: (Updates RFC0114) (Obsoleted by RFC0264) (Updated by RFC0238) 
170::  :: RFC list by number:: (Obsoleted by RFC0200) 
169::  :: Computer networks:: 
168::  :: ARPA Network mailing lists:: (Obsoletes RFC0155) (Obsoleted by RFC0211) 
167::  :: Socket conventions reconsidered:: 
164::  :: "Minutes of Network Working Group meeting, 5/16 through 5/19/71 ":: 
162::  :: NETBUGGER3:: 
160::  :: RFC brief list:: 
157::  :: Invitation to the Second Symposium on Problems in the Optimization of Data Communications Systems:: 
155::  :: ARPA Network mailing lists:: (Obsoletes RFC0095) (Obsoleted by RFC0168) 
154::  :: Exposition style:: (Obsoletes RFC0132) 
149::  :: Best laid plans:: (Updates RFC0140) 
148::  :: Comments on RFC 123:: (Updates RFC0123) 
147::  :: Definition of a socket:: (Updates RFC0129) 
140::  :: Agenda for the May NWG meeting:: (Updated by RFC0149) 
138::  :: Status report on proposed Data Reconfiguration Service:: 
136::  :: Host accounting and administrative procedures:: 
135::  :: Response to NWG/RFC 110:: (Updates RFC0110) 
132::  :: Typographical error in RFC 107:: (Updates RFC0107) (Obsoleted by RFC0154) 
131::  :: Response to RFC 116: May NWG meeting:: (Updates RFC0116) 
130::  :: Response to RFC 111: Pressure from the chairman:: (Updates RFC0111) 
129::  :: Request for comments on socket name structure:: (Updated by RFC0147) 
126::  :: Graphics facilities at Ames Research Center:: 
124::  :: Typographical error in RFC 107:: (Updates RFC0107) 
121::  :: Network on-line operators:: 
120::  :: Network PL1 subprograms:: 
119::  :: Network Fortran subprograms:: 
118::  :: Recommendations for facility documentation:: 
117::  :: Some comments on the official protocol:: 
116::  :: Structure of the May NWG meeting:: "(Updates RFC0099) (Updated by RFC0131, RFC0156) "
115::  :: Some Network Information Center policies on handling documents :: 
113::  :: Network activity report: UCSB Rand:: (Updated by RFC0227) 
112::  :: User/Server Site Protocol: Network host questionnaire responses:: 
111::  :: Pressure from the chairman:: (Updates RFC0107) (Updated by RFC0130) 
109::  :: Level III Server Protocol for the Lincoln Laboratory NIC 360/67 Host:: 
108::  :: "Attendance list at the Urbana NWG meeting, February 17-19,1971 ":: (Updates RFC0101) 
107::  :: Output of the Host-Host Protocol glitch cleaning committee:: "(Updated by RFC0132, RFC0179, RFC0111, RFC0124) "
106::  :: User/Server Site Protocol network host questionnaire:: 
104::  :: Link 191:: 
103::  :: Implementation of interrupt keys:: 
102::  :: Output of the Host-Host Protocol glitch cleaning committee:: 
101::  :: "Notes on the Network Working Group meeting, Urbana, Illinois, February 17, 1971":: (Updated by RFC0108) 
100::  :: Categorization and guide to NWG/RFCs:: 
99::  :: Network meeting:: (Updated by RFC0116) 
95::  :: Distribution of NWG/RFC's through the NIC:: (Obsoleted by RFC0155) 
90::  :: CCN as a network service center:: 
89::  :: Some historic moments in networking:: 
87::  :: Topic for discussion at the next Network Working Group meeting :: 
85::  :: Network Working Group meeting:: 
84::  :: List of NWG/RFC's 1-80:: 
82::  :: Network meeting notes:: 
81::  :: Request for reference information:: 
78::  :: NCP status report: UCSB/Rand:: 
77::  :: Network meeting report:: 
76::  :: Connection by name: User oriented protocol:: 
75::  :: Network meeting:: 
74::  :: Specifications for network use of the UCSB On-Line System:: "(Updated by RFC0217, RFC0225) "
73::  :: Response to NWG/RFC 67:: 
72::  :: Proposed moratorium on changes to network protocol:: 
71::  :: Reallocation in case of input error:: 
69::  :: Distribution list change for MIT:: (Updates RFC0052) 
68::  :: "Comments on memory allocation control commands: CEASE, ALL, GVB, RET, and RFNM":: 
66::  :: NIC - third level ideas and other noise:: (Obsoleted by RFC0123) 
64::  :: Getting rid of marking:: 
63::  :: Belated network meeting report:: 
61::  :: Note on interprocess communication in a resource sharing computer network:: (Obsoleted by RFC0062) 
57::  :: Thoughts and reflections on NWG/RFC 54:: (Updates RFC0054) 
52::  :: Updated distribution list:: (Updated by RFC0069) 
51::  :: Proposal for a Network Interchange Language:: 
50::  :: Comments on the Meyer proposal:: 
49::  :: Conversations with S. Crocker UCLA:: 
48::  :: Possible protocol plateau:: 
47::  :: BBN's comments on NWG/RFC #33:: (Updates RFC0033) 
46::  :: ARPA Network protocol notes:: 
45::  :: New protocol is coming:: 
44::  :: Comments on NWG/RFC 33 and 36:: (Updates RFC0036) 
43::  :: Proposed meeting [LIL]:: 
40::  :: More comments on the forthcoming protocol:: 
39::  :: Comments on protocol re: NWG/RFC #36:: (Updates RFC0036) 
37::  :: "Network meeting epilogue, etc":: 
36::  :: Protocol notes:: "(Updates RFC0033) (Updated by RFC0039, RFC0044) "
35::  :: Network meeting:: 
34::  :: Some brief preliminary notes on the Augmentation Research Center clock:: 
31::  :: Binary message forms in computer:: 
30::  :: Documentation conventions:: (Obsoletes RFC0027) 
27::  :: Documentation conventions:: (Obsoletes RFC0024) (Obsoleted by RFC0030) 
25::  :: No high link numbers:: 
24::  :: Documentation conventions:: (Obsoletes RFC0016) (Obsoleted by RFC0027) 
21::  :: Network meeting:: 
16::  :: M.I.T:: (Obsoletes RFC0010) (Obsoleted by RFC0024) 
15::  :: Network subsystem for time sharing hosts:: 
13::  :: [Referring to NWG/RFC 11]:: 
11::  :: Implementation of the Host-Host software procedures in GORDO:: (Obsoleted by RFC0033) 
10::  :: Documentation conventions:: (Obsoletes RFC0003) (Obsoleted by RFC0016) 
9::  :: Host software:: 
8::  :: Functional specifications for the ARPA Network:: 
7::  :: Host-IMP interface:: 
6::  :: Conversation with Bob Kahn:: 
5::  :: Decode Encode Language:: 
4::  :: Network timetable:: 
3::  :: Documentation conventions:: (Obsoleted by RFC0010) 
2::  :: Host software:: 
1::  :: Host software::                   
======================================================================

Appendix B:  Automatic Script to Implement Methodology

#!/usr/bin/perl5

# Program to read text files (such as RFCs and Internet Drafts) and output
#    items that might relate to year 2000 issues, particularly 2-digit
#    years.
#
# Version 1.0. By Paul Hoffman (paulh@imc.org). You may distribute and
#    use this program freely. I welcome comments and criticisms on the
#    program.
#
# Note: In the spirit of quick and dirty, this code is by no means optimized
#    for speed or memory usage. Instead, it is written to be as easy to read
#    (and therefore debug) as possible.

# Some people like using disk files, others like STDIN and STDOUT. This
#    program accomodates both types. 'file' means input comes from the first
#    argument on the command line, output goes to that filename with a ".out"
#    extension; 'std' means STDIN and STDOUT.

$UsageType = 'file';  # Should be 'file' or 'std'
@CheckWords = qw(UTCTime two-digit 2-digit 2digit century 1900 2000);
# You might want to add "year yyyy" to this list, but then a large proportion
#    of the RFCs and drafts get selected

if($UsageType eq 'file') {
	if($ARGV[0] eq '')
		{ die "You must specify the name of the file to open.\n" }
	$InName = $ARGV[0];
	unless(-r $InName) { die "Could not read $InName.\n" }
	open(IN, $InName) or die "Could not open $InName.\n";
	$OutName = "$InName.out";
	open(OUT, ">$OutName") or die "Could not write to $OutName.\n";
	$OutStuff = '';  # Holder for what we're going to print out
} else {  # Do STDIN and STDOUT
	open(IN, "-"); open(OUT, ">-");
}

# Read the whole file into an array. This is a tad wasteful of memory
#    but makes the output easier.
@All = ();
while(<IN>) { push(@All, $_) }
$LastLine = $#All;

# Process the instance of "yy" not followed by "yy"
for($i = 0; $i <= $LastLine; $i += 1 ) {
	next unless(grep(/yy/i, $All[$i]));
	next if(grep(/yyyy/i, $All[$i]));
	&PrintFive($i, "'yy' on a line without 'yyyy'");
}

# Next do the words that should cause extra concern
foreach $Word (@CheckWords) {
	for($i = 0; $i <= $LastLine; $i += 1 ) {
		next unless(grep(/$Word/i, $All[$i]));
		&PrintFive($i, "$Word");
	}
}

# All done. If writing to a file, and nothing got written, delete the
#    file so that you can quickly scan for the ".out" files.
if($UsageType eq 'file') {
	if(length($OutStuff) > 0) {
		$OutStuff = "+=+=+=+=+= File $InName +=+=+=+=+= \n$OutStuff\n";
		print OUT $OutStuff; close(OUT);
	} else {  # Nothing to put in the .out
		close(OUT);
		unlink($OutName) or die "Couldn't unlink $OutName\n";
	}
}
exit;

sub PrintFive {
	my $Where = shift(@_); my $Msg = shift(@_);
	my ($WhereRealLine, $Start, $End, $j);

	$WhereRealLine = $Where + 1;
	$OutStuff .= "$Msg found at line $WhereRealLine:\n";
	$Start = $Where - 2; $End = $Where + 2;
	if($Where < 2) { $Start = 0 }
	if($Where > $LastLine - 2) { $End = $LastLine }
	for($j = $Start; $j <= $End; $j += 1) { $OutStuff .= "$j:  " . @All[$j] }
	$OutStuff .= "\n";
}


Appendix C:  Output of the script in Appendix B on all RFC's from 1 
             through 2134

+=+=+=+=+= File rfc90.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 71:
68:                           consoles);
69:  
70:                        j) Six data communication ports (3 dial @ 2000 baud,
71:                           1 dedicated @ 4800 baud, and 2 dedicated @ 50,000
72:                           baud) for remote batch entry terminals;


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc230.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 92:
89:  as for conventional synchronous block communication, since start and
90:  stop bits for each character would need to be transmitted. This loss
91:  is not substantial and does occur now for 2000 bps TIP-terminal
92:  communication.
93:  

2000 found at line 134:
131:  92 transmitting sites in the U.S. and Canada were used with standard
132:  Bell System Dataphone datasets used at both ends.  At both 1200 and
133:  2000 bps, approximately 82% of the calls had error rates of 1 error in
134:  10^5 bits or better, assuming an equal number of short, medium, and
135:  long hauls.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc241.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 32:
29:     justifiable on the basis that the IMP and Host computers were
30:     expected to be either in the same room (up to 30 feet of cable) or,
31:     via the Distant Host option, within 2000 feet on well- controlled,
32:     shielded cables.  A connection through common carrier facilities is
33:     not comparably free of errors.  Usage of common- carrier lines for


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc263.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 22:
19:  of the occasional desire to interface a Host to some IMP via a
20:  long-distance connection (where long-distance, in this context,
21:  is any cable run longer than 2000 feet but may typically be tens
22:  of miles) via either a hard-wire or telephone circuit.  We believe
23:  that any good solution to the general problem of interfacing Hosts


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc662.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 143:
140:  by a rather short cable (approximately 100 feet long.) The CISL Multics is
141:  connected to the IMP number 6 (port 0) by an approximately l5OO feet long cable.
142:  8oth IMPs are in close physical proximity (approximately 2000 feet,) and are
143:  connected to each other by a 5O kilobits per second line. The results given
144:  above show considerable improvement in the performance with the new IMP DIM.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc713.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 830:
827:  succeeding bytes in the stream used to encode the object.
828:  
829:  A data object requiring 20000 (47040 octal) bytes would
830:  appear in the stream as follows.
831:  

2000 found at line 837:
834:  10000010 -- specifying that the next 2 bytes
835:  contain the stream length
836:  01001110 -- first byte of number 20000
837:  00100000 -- second byte
838:  .

2000 found at line 845:
842:  .
843:  
844:  Interpretation of the contents of the 20000 bytes in
845:  the stream can be performed by a module which knows the
846:  specific format of the non-atomic type specified by DEFGH in


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc724.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2-digit found at line 1046:
1043:                                                  <4-digit-year>
1044:           <slash-date>      ::=   <numeric-month> "/" <date-of-month>
1045:                                                   "/" <2-digit-year>
1046:           <numeric-month>   ::=   <one or two decimal digits>
1047:           <day-of-month>    ::=   <one or two decimal digits>

2-digit found at line 1062:
1059:                                 | "December" | "Dec"
1060:           <4-digit-year>    ::=   <four decimal digits>
1061:           <2-digit-year>    ::=   <two decimal digits>
1062:           <time>            ::=   <24-hour-time> "-" <time-zone>
1063:           <24-hour-time>    ::=   <hour> <minute>

2-digit found at line 1675:
1672:       A.  ALPHABETICAL LISTING OF SYNTAX RULES
1673:  
1674:       <2-digit-year>    ::=   <two decimal digits>
1675:       <4-digit-year>    ::=   <four decimal digits>
1676:       <24-hour-time>    ::=   <hour> <minute>

2-digit found at line 1829:
1826:  
1827:       <slash-date>      ::=   <numeric-month> "/" <date-of-month>
1828:                                               "/" <2-digit-year>
1829:       <space>           ::=   <TELNET ASCII space (decimal 32)>
1830:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc731.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1571:
1568:             RFC 728, 1977.
1569:  
1570:       9.  Hazeltine 2000 Desk Top Display Operating Instructions.
1571:             Hazeltine IB-1866A, 1870.
1572:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc732.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1681:
1678:         1977.
1679:  
1680:    9.   Hazeltine 2000 Desk Top Display Operating Instructions. Hazeltine
1681:         IB-1866A, 1870.
1682:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc733.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2-digit found at line 333:
330:  
331:  "<n>(element)" is  equivalent  to  "<n>*<n>(element)";  that  is,
332:  exactly  <n>  occurrences of (element).  Thus 2DIGIT is a 2-digit
333:  number, and 3ALPHA is a string of three alphabetic characters.
334:  

2digit found at line 333:
330:  
331:  "<n>(element)" is  equivalent  to  "<n>*<n>(element)";  that  is,
332:  exactly  <n>  occurrences of (element).  Thus 2DIGIT is a 2-digit
333:  number, and 3ALPHA is a string of three alphabetic characters.
334:  

2digit found at line 947:
944:              /  "Sunday"    / "Sun"
945:  
946:  date        =  1*2DIGIT ["-"] month         ; day month year
947:                 ["-"] (2DIGIT /4DIGIT)       ;  e.g. 20 Aug [19]77
948:  

2digit found at line 948:
945:  
946:  date        =  1*2DIGIT ["-"] month         ; day month year
947:                 ["-"] (2DIGIT /4DIGIT)       ;  e.g. 20 Aug [19]77
948:  
949:  month       =  "January"   / "Jan"  / "February"  / "Feb"

2digit found at line 967:
964:                                              ;  (seconds optional)
965:  
966:  hour        =  2DIGIT [":"] 2DIGIT [ [":"] 2DIGIT ]
967:                                              ; 0000[00] - 2359[59]
968:  

2digit found at line 1718:
1715:  CTL         =  <any TELNET ASCII control character and DEL>
1716:  
1717:  date        =  1*2DIGIT ["-"] month ["-"] (2DIGIT /4DIGIT)
1718:  date-field  =  "Date"       ":" date-time
1719:  date-time   =  [ day-of-week "," ] date time

2digit found at line 1754:
1751:  host-indicator =  1*( ("at" / "@") node )
1752:  host-phrase =  phrase  host-indicator
1753:  hour        =  2DIGIT [":"] 2DIGIT [ [":"] 2DIGIT ]
1754:  HTAB        =  <TELNET ASCII horizontal-tab>
1755:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc734.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 184:
181:  Bit name	Value		Meaning
182:  
183:  %TOALT		200000,,0	characters  175  and 176  are converted to
184:  				altmode (033) on input.
185:  

2000 found at line 264:
261:  				 NORMALLY OFF.
262:  
263:  %TOSA1		  2000,,0	characters  001-037  should  be  displayed
264:  				using  the  Stanford/ITS  extended   ASCII
265:  				graphics character set instead of  uparrow

2000 found at line 354:
351:  %TXTOP	4000	This character has the [TOP] key depressed.
352:  
353:  %TXSFL	2000	Reserved, must be zero.
354:  
355:  %TXSFT	1000	Reserved, must be zero.

2000 found at line 634:
631:  Value	Key
632:  
633:   2000	Reserved
634:   1000	Reserved
635:   0400	<META>


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc738.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 41:
38:  without sending anything.
39:  
40:  The time is the number of seconds since 0000 (midnight) 1 January 1900
41:  GMT, such that the time 1 is 12:00:01 am on 1 January 1900 GMT; this
42:  base will serve until the year 2036.  As a further example, the most

1900 found at line 42:
39:  
40:  The time is the number of seconds since 0000 (midnight) 1 January 1900
41:  GMT, such that the time 1 is 12:00:01 am on 1 January 1900 GMT; this
42:  base will serve until the year 2036.  As a further example, the most
43:  recent leap year as of this writing began from the time 2,398,291,200


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc745.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 562:
559:  Circuits, EIA standard RS-422," April 1975; Engineering Dept.,
560:  Electronic Industries Assn., 2001 Eye St., N.W., Washington, D.C.,
561:  20006.
562:  
563:  REA bulletin 345-67, Rural Electrification Admin., U.S. Dept. of


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc746.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 341:
338:           %TDGRF                 ;Enter graphics.
339:           %GOCLR                 ;Clear the screen.
340:           %GOMVA xx yy           ;Set cursor.
341:           %GODLA xx yy           ;Draw line from there.
342:           << repeat last two commands for each line >>

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 342:
339:           %GOCLR                 ;Clear the screen.
340:           %GOMVA xx yy           ;Set cursor.
341:           %GODLA xx yy           ;Draw line from there.
342:           << repeat last two commands for each line >>
343:           %TDNOP                 ;Exit graphics.

2000 found at line 859:
856:  %TRGIN  0,,400000  terminal can provide graphics input.
857:  
858:  %TRGHC  0,,200000  terminal has a hard-copy device to which output can
859:                     be diverted.
860:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc752.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 218:
215:  word 4          The name of the site in SIXBIT.
216:  word 5          The user name who compiled the file, usually in SIXBIT.
217:  word 6          Date of compilation as SIXBIT YYMMDD.
218:  word 7          Time of compilation as SIXBIT HHMMSS.
219:  word 8          Address in file of NAME table.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc754.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 76:
73:  
74:  Messages are transmitted as a character string to an address which is
75:  specified "outside" the message.  The destination host ("YYY") is
76:  specified to the sending (or user) FTP as the argument of the "open
77:  connection" command, and the destination user ("XXX") is specified to

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 81:
78:  the receiving (or server) FTP as the argument of the "MAIL" (or "MLFL")
79:  command.  In Tenex, when mail is queued this outside information is
80:  saved in the file name ("[---].XXX@YYY").
81:  
82:  The proposed solutions are briefly characterized.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 239:
236:  
237:  
238:     "[---].XXX@YYY", not anything from the header.  Only the string "XXX"
239:     is passed to the FTP server.
240:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc759.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
two-digit found at line 1414:
1411:        yyyy-mm-dd-hh:mm:ss,fff+hh:mm
1412:  
1413:      Where yyyy is the four-digit year, mm is the two-digit month, dd is
1414:      the two-digit day, hh is the two-digit hour in 24 hour time, mm is
1415:      the two-digit minute, ss is the two-digit second, and fff is the

two-digit found at line 1415:
1412:  
1413:      Where yyyy is the four-digit year, mm is the two-digit month, dd is
1414:      the two-digit day, hh is the two-digit hour in 24 hour time, mm is
1415:      the two-digit minute, ss is the two-digit second, and fff is the
1416:      decimal fraction of the second.  To this basic date and time is

two-digit found at line 1416:
1413:      Where yyyy is the four-digit year, mm is the two-digit month, dd is
1414:      the two-digit day, hh is the two-digit hour in 24 hour time, mm is
1415:      the two-digit minute, ss is the two-digit second, and fff is the
1416:      decimal fraction of the second.  To this basic date and time is
1417:      appended the offset from Greenwich as plus or minus hh hours and mm


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc767.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
two-digit found at line 710:
707:        yyyy-mm-dd-hh:mm:ss,fff+hh:mm
708:  
709:      Where yyyy is the four-digit year, mm is the two-digit month, dd is
710:      the two-digit day, hh is the two-digit hour in 24 hour time, mm is
711:      the two-digit minute, ss is the two-digit second, and fff is the

two-digit found at line 711:
708:  
709:      Where yyyy is the four-digit year, mm is the two-digit month, dd is
710:      the two-digit day, hh is the two-digit hour in 24 hour time, mm is
711:      the two-digit minute, ss is the two-digit second, and fff is the
712:      decimal fraction of the second.  To this basic date and time is

two-digit found at line 712:
709:      Where yyyy is the four-digit year, mm is the two-digit month, dd is
710:      the two-digit day, hh is the two-digit hour in 24 hour time, mm is
711:      the two-digit minute, ss is the two-digit second, and fff is the
712:      decimal fraction of the second.  To this basic date and time is
713:      appended the offset from Greenwich as plus or minus hh hours and mm


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc786.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 71:
68:  
69:           The date-time will be in the default TOPS20 ODTIM format
70:           "dd-mmm-yy hh:mm:ss" (24 hour time).
71:  
72:        The files will named "arbitrary.NIMAIL.-1", where "arbitrary" will


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc788.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1592:
1589:              <daytime> ::= "at" <SP> <date> <SP> <time>
1590:  
1591:              <date> ::= <dd> "-" <mon> "-" <yy>
1592:  
1593:              <time> ::= <hh> ":" <mm> ":" <ss> "-" <zone>

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1602:
1599:                        "JUL" | "AUG" | "SEP" | "OCT" | "NOV" | "DEC"
1600:  
1601:              <yy> ::= the two decimal integer year of the century in the
1602:                        range 01 to 99.
1603:  

century found at line 1602:
1599:                        "JUL" | "AUG" | "SEP" | "OCT" | "NOV" | "DEC"
1600:  
1601:              <yy> ::= the two decimal integer year of the century in the
1602:                        range 01 to 99.
1603:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc809.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 3349:
3346:  
3347:        #define WID     0000000   /* Write Image Data */
3348:        #define WGD     0020000   /* Write Graphic Data */
3349:        #define WAC     0022000   /* Write AlphanumCh */
3350:  

2000 found at line 3350:
3347:        #define WID     0000000   /* Write Image Data */
3348:        #define WGD     0020000   /* Write Graphic Data */
3349:        #define WAC     0022000   /* Write AlphanumCh */
3350:  
3351:        #define LWM     0024000   /* Load Write Mode */

2000 found at line 3379:
3376:  
3377:        #define ERS     0030000   /* Erase */
3378:        #define ERL     0032000   /* Erase Line */
3379:        #define SLU     0034000   /* Special Location Update */
3380:        #define   SCRL_ZAP 0100   /* unlimited scroll speed */

2000 found at line 3392:
3389:        #define LLB     0070000   /* Load Lb */
3390:        #define LLC     0074000   /* Load Lc */
3391:        #define   LGW     02000   /* perform write */
3392:  
3393:        #define NOP     0110000   /* No-Operation */

2000 found at line 3396:
3393:        #define NOP     0110000   /* No-Operation */
3394:  
3395:        #define SPD     0120000   /* Select Special Device */
3396:        #define LPA     0130000   /* Load Peripheral Address */
3397:        #define LPR     0140000   /* Load Peripheral Register */

2000 found at line 3405:
3402:        #define   ALPHA   06000   /* LPR - Alphanumeric data */
3403:        #define   GRAPH   04000   /* LPR - Graphic data */
3404:        #define   IMAGE   02000   /* LPR - Image data */
3405:        #define   LTHENH  01000   /* take lo byte then hi byte */
3406:        #define   DROPBYTE 0400   /* drop last byte */

2000 found at line 3408:
3405:        #define   LTHENH  01000   /* take lo byte then hi byte */
3406:        #define   DROPBYTE 0400   /* drop last byte */
3407:        #define INTERR    02000   /* SPD - Interrupt Enable */
3408:        #define TEST      04000   /* SPD - Diagnostic Test */
3409:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc810.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 146:
143:     , (comma)          is used as a data element delimiter
144:  
145:     XXX/YYY            indicates protocol information of the type
146:                        TRANSPORT/SERVICE.
147:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc820.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 674:
671:        014.000.000.001   311031700035 00     PURDUE-TN              [CXK]
672:        014.000.000.002   311060800027 00     UWISC-TN               [CXK]
673:        014.000.000.003   311030200024 00     UDEL-TN                [CXK]
674:        014.000.000.004   234219200149 23     UCL-VTEST               [PK]
675:        014.000.000.005   234219200300 23     UCL-TG                  [PK]


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc821.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1944:
1941:              <daytime> ::= <SP> <date> <SP> <time>
1942:  
1943:              <date> ::= <dd> <SP> <mon> <SP> <yy>
1944:  
1945:              <time> ::= <hh> ":" <mm> ":" <ss> <SP> <zone>

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1954:
1951:                        "JUL" | "AUG" | "SEP" | "OCT" | "NOV" | "DEC"
1952:  
1953:              <yy> ::= the two decimal integer year of the century in the
1954:                        range 00 to 99.
1955:  

century found at line 1954:
1951:                        "JUL" | "AUG" | "SEP" | "OCT" | "NOV" | "DEC"
1952:  
1953:              <yy> ::= the two decimal integer year of the century in the
1954:                        range 00 to 99.
1955:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc822.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1635:
1632:       5.1.  SYNTAX
1633:  
1634:       date-time   =  [ day "," ] date time        ; dd mm yy
1635:                                                   ;  hh:mm:ss zzz
1636:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2701:
2698:       dates       =   orig-date                   ; Original
2699:                     [ resent-date ]               ; Forwarded
2700:       date-time   =  [ day "," ] date time        ; dd mm yy
2701:                                                   ;  hh:mm:ss zzz
2702:       day         =  "Mon"  / "Tue" /  "Wed"  / "Thu"

2-digit found at line 344:
341:  
342:            "<n>(element)" is equivalent to "<n>*<n>(element)"; that is,
343:       exactly  <n>  occurrences  of (element). Thus 2DIGIT is a 2-digit
344:       number, and 3ALPHA is a string of three alphabetic characters.
345:  

2digit found at line 344:
341:  
342:            "<n>(element)" is equivalent to "<n>*<n>(element)"; that is,
343:       exactly  <n>  occurrences  of (element). Thus 2DIGIT is a 2-digit
344:       number, and 3ALPHA is a string of three alphabetic characters.
345:  

2digit found at line 1641:
1638:                   /  "Fri"  / "Sat" /  "Sun"
1639:  
1640:       date        =  1*2DIGIT month 2DIGIT        ; day month year
1641:                                                   ;  e.g. 20 Jun 82
1642:  

2digit found at line 1650:
1647:       time        =  hour zone                    ; ANSI and Military
1648:  
1649:       hour        =  2DIGIT ":" 2DIGIT [":" 2DIGIT]
1650:                                                   ; 00:00:00 - 23:59:59
1651:  

2digit found at line 2697:
2694:       CTL         =  <any ASCII control           ; (  0- 37,  0.- 31.)
2695:                       character and DEL>          ; (    177,     127.)
2696:       date        =  1*2DIGIT month 2DIGIT        ; day month year
2697:                                                   ;  e.g. 20 Jun 82
2698:       dates       =   orig-date                   ; Original

2digit found at line 2747:
2744:       field-name  =  1*<any CHAR, excluding CTLs, SPACE, and ":">
2745:       group       =  phrase ":" [#mailbox] ";"
2746:       hour        =  2DIGIT ":" 2DIGIT [":" 2DIGIT]
2747:                                                   ; 00:00:00 - 23:59:59
2748:       HTAB        =  <ASCII HT, horizontal-tab>   ; (     11,       9.)


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc850.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 227:
224:  network.  One format that is acceptable to both is
225:  
226:       Weekday, DD-Mon-YY HH:MM:SS TIMEZONE
227:  
228:  Several examples of  valid  dates  appear  in  the  sample


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc867.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 67:
64:        Another popular syntax is that used in SMTP:
65:  
66:           dd mmm yy hh:mm:ss zzz
67:  
68:           Example:


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc868.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 19:
16:  This protocol provides a site-independent, machine readable date and
17:  time.  The Time service sends back to the originating source the time in
18:  seconds since midnight on January first 1900.
19:  
20:  One motivation arises from the fact that not all systems have a

1900 found at line 83:
80:  The Time
81:  
82:  The time is the number of seconds since 00:00 (midnight) 1 January 1900
83:  GMT, such that the time 1 is 12:00:01 am on 1 January 1900 GMT; this
84:  base will serve until the year 2036.

1900 found at line 84:
81:  
82:  The time is the number of seconds since 00:00 (midnight) 1 January 1900
83:  GMT, such that the time 1 is 12:00:01 am on 1 January 1900 GMT; this
84:  base will serve until the year 2036.
85:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc869.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1639:
1636:                    400      HDH
1637:                   1000      Cassette Writer
1638:                   2000      Propagation Delay Measurement
1639:                   4000      X25
1640:                  10000      Profile Measurements

2000 found at line 1642:
1639:                   4000      X25
1640:                  10000      Profile Measurements
1641:                  20000      Self Authenticating Password
1642:                  40000      Host traffic Matrix
1643:                 100000      Experimental/Special

2000 found at line 1669:
1666:                200      Trace ON
1667:               1000      Statistics ON
1668:               2000      Message Generator ON
1669:               4000      Packet Trace ON
1670:              10000      Host Data Checksum is BAD

2000 found at line 1672:
1669:               4000      Packet Trace ON
1670:              10000      Host Data Checksum is BAD
1671:              20000      Reload Location SET
1672:  
1673:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc884.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 236:
233:        GENERAL-TERMINAL-100A
234:        HAZELTINE-1500
235:        HAZELTINE-2000
236:        HP-2621
237:        HP-2640A


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc899.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 337:
334:     provides a site-independent, machine readable date and time.  The
335:     Time service sends back to the originating source the time in seconds
336:     since midnight on January first 1900.
337:  
338:  867     Postel       May 83      Daytime Protocol


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc900.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1595:
1592:     HAZELTINE-1510
1593:     HAZELTINE-1520
1594:     HAZELTINE-2000
1595:     HP-2621
1596:     HP-2621A


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc909.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 859:
856:       responses from the target.  A session begins when a host opens  a
857:       transport  connection to a target listening on a well known port.
858:       LDP uses RDP port number zzz or TCP port number  yyy.   When  the
859:       connection  has been established, the host sends a HELLO command,
860:       and the target  replies  with  a  HELLO_REPLY.   The  HELLO_REPLY


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc923.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1769:
1766:     HAZELTINE-1510
1767:     HAZELTINE-1520
1768:     HAZELTINE-2000
1769:     HP-2621
1770:     HP-2621A


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc937.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 327:
324:        FOLD mailbox                      - Error
325:        READ [n]                          #xxx
326:        RETR                              =yyy
327:        ACKS
328:        ACKD


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc943.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1829:
1826:     HAZELTINE-1510
1827:     HAZELTINE-1520
1828:     HAZELTINE-2000
1829:     HP-2621
1830:     HP-2621A


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc952.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 159:
156:     ,(comma)        is used as a data element delimiter
157:  
158:     XXX/YYY         indicates protocol information of the type
159:                     TRANSPORT/SERVICE.
160:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc956.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 748:
745:  
746:        3.  The data format should be based on the UDP Time format, which
747:            specifies 32-bit time in seconds since 1 January 1900, but
748:            extended additional bits for the fractional part of a second.
749:  

1900 found at line 826:
823:     experiment the results indicated by UDP and ICMP are compared.  In
824:     the UDP Time protocol time is indicated as a 32-bit field in seconds
825:     past 0000 UT on 1 January 1900, while in the ICMP Timestamp message
826:     time is indicated as a 32-bit field in milliseconds past 0000 UT of
827:     each day.

2000 found at line 1392:
1389:           CU-ARPA.CS.CORNELL.EDU  -1              -514
1390:           UCI-ICSE.ARPA           -1              -1896
1391:           UCI-ICSC.ARPA           1               2000
1392:           DCN9.ARPA               -7              -6610
1393:           TRANTOR.ARPA            10              10232


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc958.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 41:
38:     NTP provides the protocol mechanisms to synchronize time in principle
39:     to precisions in the order of nanoseconds while preserving a
40:     non-ambiguous date, at least for this century.  The protocol includes
41:     provisions to specify the precision and estimated error of the local
42:     clock and the characteristics of the reference clock to which it may

1900 found at line 143:
140:  
141:     NTP timestamps are represented as a 64-bit fixed-point number, in
142:     seconds relative to 0000 UT on 1 January 1900.  The integer part is
143:     in the first 32 bits and the fraction part in the last 32 bits, as
144:     shown in the following diagram.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc960.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1659:
1656:        014.000.000.018   2624-522-80900 52   DFVLR5-X25            [HDC1]
1657:        014.000.000.019   2041-170-10000 00   SHAPE-X25              [JFW]
1658:        014.000.000.020   5052-737-20000 50   UQNET                  [AXH]
1659:        014.000.000.021   3020-801-00057 50   DMC-CRC1              [JR17]
1660:        014.000.000.022-014.255.255.254       Unassigned             [JBP]

2000 found at line 1984:
1981:     AEGIS
1982:     APOLLO
1983:     BS-2000
1984:     CEDAR
1985:     CGW

2000 found at line 2350:
2347:     HAZELTINE-1510
2348:     HAZELTINE-1520
2349:     HAZELTINE-2000
2350:     HP-2621
2351:     HP-2621A


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc973.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 377:
374:        We might add the following to the parent zone:
375:  
376:         99.128.IN-ADDR.ARPA. 2000 NS  Q.ISI.EDU.               
377:                              2000 NS  XX.MIT.EDU.              
378:         Q.ISI.EDU.           2000 A   <address of Q.ISI.EDU.>  

2000 found at line 378:
375:  
376:         99.128.IN-ADDR.ARPA. 2000 NS  Q.ISI.EDU.               
377:                              2000 NS  XX.MIT.EDU.              
378:         Q.ISI.EDU.           2000 A   <address of Q.ISI.EDU.>  
379:         XX.MIT.EDU.          2000 A   <address of XX.MIT.EDU.> 

2000 found at line 379:
376:         99.128.IN-ADDR.ARPA. 2000 NS  Q.ISI.EDU.               
377:                              2000 NS  XX.MIT.EDU.              
378:         Q.ISI.EDU.           2000 A   <address of Q.ISI.EDU.>  
379:         XX.MIT.EDU.          2000 A   <address of XX.MIT.EDU.> 
380:  

2000 found at line 380:
377:                              2000 NS  XX.MIT.EDU.              
378:         Q.ISI.EDU.           2000 A   <address of Q.ISI.EDU.>  
379:         XX.MIT.EDU.          2000 A   <address of XX.MIT.EDU.> 
380:  
381:        and the following to the child zone:

2000 found at line 384:
381:        and the following to the child zone:
382:  
383:         99.128.IN-ADDR.ARPA. 2000 NS  Q.ISI.EDU.               
384:                              2000 NS  XX.MIT.EDU.              
385:                              5000 SOA <SOA information>        

2000 found at line 385:
382:  
383:         99.128.IN-ADDR.ARPA. 2000 NS  Q.ISI.EDU.               
384:                              2000 NS  XX.MIT.EDU.              
385:                              5000 SOA <SOA information>        
386:         Q.ISI.EDU.           2000 A   <address of Q.ISI.EDU.>  

2000 found at line 387:
384:                              2000 NS  XX.MIT.EDU.              
385:                              5000 SOA <SOA information>        
386:         Q.ISI.EDU.           2000 A   <address of Q.ISI.EDU.>  
387:         XX.MIT.EDU.          2000 A   <address of XX.MIT.EDU.> 
388:  

2000 found at line 388:
385:                              5000 SOA <SOA information>        
386:         Q.ISI.EDU.           2000 A   <address of Q.ISI.EDU.>  
387:         XX.MIT.EDU.          2000 A   <address of XX.MIT.EDU.> 
388:  
389:     SOA serials


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc977.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 814:
811:     the same format as the LIST command.
812:  
813:     The date is sent as 6 digits in the format YYMMDD, where YY is the
814:     last two digits of the year, MM is the two digits of the month (with
815:     leading zero, if appropriate), and DD is the day of the month (with

century found at line 817:
814:     last two digits of the year, MM is the two digits of the month (with
815:     leading zero, if appropriate), and DD is the day of the month (with
816:     leading zero, if appropriate).  The closest century is assumed as
817:     part of the year (i.e., 86 specifies 1986, 30 specifies 2030, 99 is
818:     1999, 00 is 2000).

2000 found at line 819:
816:     leading zero, if appropriate).  The closest century is assumed as
817:     part of the year (i.e., 86 specifies 1986, 30 specifies 2030, 99 is
818:     1999, 00 is 2000).
819:  
820:     Time must also be specified.  It must be as 6 digits HHMMSS with HH

2000 found at line 1190:
1187:  
1188:     (client asks for new newsgroups since April 3, 1985)
1189:     C:      NEWGROUPS 850403 020000
1190:  
1191:     S:      231 New newsgroups since 03/04/85 02:00:00 follow

2000 found at line 1275:
1272:  
1273:     (client asks for new newsgroups since 2 am, May 15, 1985)
1274:     C:      NEWGROUPS 850515 020000
1275:     S:      235 New newsgroups since 850515 follow
1276:     S:      net.fluff

2000 found at line 1282:
1279:  
1280:     (client asks for new news articles since 2 am, May 15, 1985)
1281:     C:      NEWNEWS * 850515 020000
1282:     S:      230 New news since 850515 020000 follows
1283:     S:      <1772@foo.UUCP>

2000 found at line 1283:
1280:     (client asks for new news articles since 2 am, May 15, 1985)
1281:     C:      NEWNEWS * 850515 020000
1282:     S:      230 New news since 850515 020000 follows
1283:     S:      <1772@foo.UUCP>
1284:     S:      <87623@baz.UUCP>


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc985.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 505:
502:        Very Distant Host (VDH) methods are not recommended for new
503:        implementations.  The Distant Host (DH) method is used when the
504:        host and IMP are separated by not more than about 2000 feet of
505:        cable, while the HDLC Distant Host is used for greater distances
506:        where a modem is required.  Retransmission, resequencing and flow


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc987.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 1100:
1097:           X.408 (sections 4.2.2 and 5.2.2).
1098:  
1099:        3.3.5.  UTCTime
1100:  
1101:           Both UTCTime and the RFC 822 822.date-time syntax contain: Year

UTCTime found at line 1102:
1099:        3.3.5.  UTCTime
1100:  
1101:           Both UTCTime and the RFC 822 822.date-time syntax contain: Year
1102:           (lowest two digits), Month, Day of Month, hour, minute, second
1103:           (optional), and Timezone.  822.date-time also contains an

UTCTime found at line 1107:
1104:           optional day of the week, but this is redundant.  Therefore a
1105:           symmetrical mapping can be made between these constructs <5>.
1106:           The UTCTime format which specifies the timezone offset should
1107:           be used, in line with CEN/CENELEC recommendations.
1108:  

UTCTime found at line 3395:
3392:  
3393:        The extended syntax of zone defined in the JNT Mail Protocol
3394:        should be used in the mapping of UTCTime defined in chapter 3.
3395:  
3396:     5.  Lack of separate 822-P1 originator specification

UTCTime found at line 3910:
3907:     <5>  In practice, a gateway will need to parse various illegal
3908:          variants on 822.date-time.  In cases where 822.date-time cannot
3909:          be parsed, it is recommended that the derived UTCTime is set to
3910:          the value at the time of translation.
3911:  

2digit found at line 2785:
2782:                              last-trace ";"
2783:                              "ext" 1*DIGIT
2784:                              "flags" 2DIGIT
2785:                              [ "intended" mailbox ] ";"
2786:                              [ "info" printablestring ]


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc990.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 2265:
2262:          014.000.000.018   2624-522-80900 52   DFVLR5-X25           [GB7]
2263:          014.000.000.019   2041-170-10000 00   SHAPE-X25            [JFW]
2264:          014.000.000.020   5052-737-20000 50   UQNET                [AXH]
2265:          014.000.000.021   3020-801-00057 50   DMC-CRC1            [JR17]
2266:          014.000.000.022   2624-522-80902 77   DFVLRVAX-X25         [GB7]

2000 found at line 2584:
2581:     AEGIS
2582:     APOLLO
2583:     BS-2000
2584:     CEDAR
2585:     CGW

2000 found at line 2945:
2942:     HAZELTINE-1510
2943:     HAZELTINE-1520
2944:     HAZELTINE-2000
2945:     HP-2621
2946:     HP-2621A


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc996.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 76:
73:  
74:          Process type: 000027  options: 040000
75:          Subnet: DMV  status: 376  hello: 15  timeout: 2000
76:          Foreign address: [192.5.39.87]  max size: 576
77:          Input packets      3645    Output packets  3690


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1000.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 3105:
3102:        protocol provides a site-independent, machine readable date and
3103:        time.  The Time service sends back to the originating source the
3104:        time in seconds since midnight on January first 1900.
3105:  
3106:     867     Postel       May 83      Daytime Protocol


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1009.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1412:
1409:        method is used when the host and IMP (the Defense Communication
1410:        Agency calls it a Packet Switch Node or PSN) are separated by not
1411:        more than about 2000 feet of cable, while the HDLC Distant Host
1412:        (HDH) is used for greater distances where a modem is required.
1413:        Under HDH, retransmission, resequencing and flow control are


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1010.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 969:
966:         014.000.000.018   2624-522-80900 52   DFVLR5-X25            [GB7]
967:         014.000.000.019   2041-170-10000 00   SHAPE-X25             [JFW]
968:         014.000.000.020   5052-737-20000 50   UQNET                 [AXH]
969:         014.000.000.021   3020-801-00057 50   DMC-CRC1             [JR17]
970:         014.000.000.022   2624-522-80902 77   DFVLRVAX-X25          [GB7]

2000 found at line 1353:
1350:     AEGIS
1351:     APOLLO
1352:     BS-2000
1353:     CEDAR
1354:     CGW

2000 found at line 1719:
1716:     HAZELTINE-1510
1717:     HAZELTINE-1520
1718:     HAZELTINE-2000
1719:     HP-2621
1720:     HP-2621A


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1024.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 535:
532:  
533:     The local system clock, measured in milliseconds since 00:00 1
534:     January 1900 UTC.  Assumed to be only a local estimate of the time.
535:     The value 0 is reserved for an uninitialized clock (For example, an
536:     uninitialized time-of-day chip.)

1900 found at line 546:
543:     A network synchronized clock, which is assumed to be synchronized
544:     across some part of a network.  The clock value is measured in
545:     milliseconds since 00:00 1 January 1900 UTC.  Specific information
546:     about the synchronization protocol is found in the system variable
547:     dictionary.  The value 0 is used to indicate an uninitialized clock.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1036.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 196:
193:      both is:
194:  
195:                        Wdy, DD Mon YY HH:MM:SS TIMEZONE
196:  
197:      Several examples of valid dates appear in the sample message above.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1037.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 541:
538:      Date                A numeric data token.  The date is expressed in
539:                          Universal Time format, which measures a time as
540:                          the number of seconds since January 1, 1900, at
541:                          midnight GMT.
542:  

1900 found at line 2544:
2541:     The creation date of the file.  The date is expressed in Universal
2542:     Time format, which measures a time as the number of seconds since
2543:     January 1, 1900, at midnight GMT.  Creation date does not necessarily
2544:     mean the time the file system created the directory entry or records
2545:     of the file.  For systems that support modification or appending to


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1038.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 317:
314:  
315:     The values of this field are assigned by DCA Code R130, Washington,
316:     D.C.  20305-2000.  Each value corresponds to a requestor who, once
317:     assigned, becomes the authority for the remainder of the option
318:     definition for that value.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1050.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 323:
320:  7.3 Program Number Assignment
321:  
322:     Program numbers are given out in groups of hexadecimal 20000000
323:     (decimal 536870912) according to the following chart:
324:  

2000 found at line 327:
324:  
325:                   0 - 1fffffff   defined by Sun
326:            20000000 - 3fffffff   defined by user
327:            40000000 - 5fffffff   transient
328:            60000000 - 7fffffff   reserved


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1057.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 339:
336:  7.3 Program Number Assignment
337:  
338:     Program numbers are given out in groups of hexadecimal 20000000
339:     (decimal 536870912) according to the following chart:
340:  

2000 found at line 343:
340:  
341:                   0 - 1fffffff   defined by Sun
342:            20000000 - 3fffffff   defined by user
343:            40000000 - 5fffffff   transient
344:            60000000 - 7fffffff   reserved


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1059.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 142:
139:     mechanisms to synchronize time in principle to precisions in the
140:     order of nanoseconds while preserving a non-ambiguous date well into
141:     the next century.  The protocol includes provisions to specify the
142:     characteristics and estimate the error of the local clock and the
143:     time server to which it may be synchronized.  It also includes

1900 found at line 574:
571:     frequency to the TA time scale.  At 0000 hours on 1 January 1972 the
572:     NTP time scale was set to 2,272,060,800, representing the number of
573:     TA seconds since 0000 hours on 1 January 1900.  The insertion of leap
574:     seconds in UTC does not affect the oscillator itself, only the
575:     translation between TA and UTC, or conventional civil time.  However,

1900 found at line 649:
646:     main product of the protocol, a special timestamp format has been
647:     established.  NTP timestamps are represented as a 64-bit unsigned
648:     fixed-point number, in seconds relative to 0000 UT on 1 January 1900.
649:     The integer part is in the first 32 bits and the fraction part in the
650:     last 32 bits, as shown in the following diagram.

1900 found at line 690:
687:     the Integer Part) has been set and that the 64-bit field will
688:     overflow some time in 2036.  Should NTP be in use in 2036, some
689:     external means will be necessary to qualify time relative to 1900 and
690:     time relative to 2036 (and other multiples of 136 years).
691:     Timestamped data requiring such qualification will be so precious


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1060.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2324:
2321:     AB-00-03-00-00-00       6004    DEC Local Area Transport (LAT) - old
2322:     AB-00-04-00-xx-xx       ????    Reserved DEC customer private use
2323:     AB-00-04-01-xx-yy       6007    DEC Local Area VAX Cluster groups
2324:                                     System Communication Architecture (SCA)
2325:     CF-00-00-00-00-00       9000    Ethernet Configuration Test protocol (Loopback)

2000 found at line 2729:
2726:         014.000.000.018   2624-522-80900 52   FGAN-SIEMENS-X25      [GB7]
2727:         014.000.000.019   2041-170-10000 00   SHAPE-X25             [JFW]
2728:         014.000.000.020   5052-737-20000 50   UQNET                 [AXH]
2729:         014.000.000.021   3020-801-00057 50   DMC-CRC1              [VXT]
2730:         014.000.000.022   2624-522-80329 02   FGAN-FGANFFMVAX-X25   [GB7]

2000 found at line 3155:
3152:     AEGIS                     MACOS                     TP3010
3153:     APOLLO                    MINOS                     TRSDOS
3154:     BS-2000                   MOS                       ULTRIX
3155:     CEDAR                     MPE5                      UNIX
3156:     CGW                       MSDOS                     UNIX-BSD

2000 found at line 3508:
3505:     HAZELTINE-1520                        IBM-3278-5-E
3506:     HAZELTINE-1552                        IBM-3279-2-E
3507:     HAZELTINE-2000                        IBM-3279-3-E
3508:     HAZELTINE-ESPRIT                      IMLAC
3509:     HP-2392                               INFOTON-100


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1064.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1321:
1318:                         "NO" SP text_line / "BAD" SP text_line)
1319:  
1320:     date            ::= string in form "dd-mmm-yy hh:mm:ss-zzz"
1321:  
1322:     envelope        ::= "(" env_date SP env_subject SP env_from SP


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1085.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 1501:
1498:  
1499:                 commonReference
1500:                     UTCTime,
1501:  
1502:                 additionalReferenceInformation[0]


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1094.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 878:
875:  
876:        0040000 This is a directory; "type" field should be NFDIR.
877:        0020000 This is a character special file; "type" field should
878:                be NFCHR.
879:        0060000 This is a block special file; "type" field should be

2000 found at line 883:
880:                NFBLK.
881:        0100000 This is a regular file; "type" field should be NFREG.
882:        0120000 This is a symbolic link file;  "type" field should be
883:                NFLNK.
884:        0140000 This is a named socket; "type" field should be NFNON.

2000 found at line 887:
884:        0140000 This is a named socket; "type" field should be NFNON.
885:        0004000 Set user id on execution.
886:        0002000 Set group id on execution.
887:        0001000 Save swapped text even after use.
888:        0000400 Read permission for owner.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1108.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 187:
184:     throughout DoD common user data networks, users of these networks
185:     should submit requirements for additional Protection Authority Flags
186:     to DISA DISDB, Washington, D.C.  20305-2000, for review and approval.
187:     Such review and approval should be sought prior to design,
188:     development or deployment of any system which would make use of

2000 found at line 774:
771:     data networks, and to maximize interoperability, each activity should
772:     submit its plans for the definition and use of an Additional Security
773:     Info Format Code to DISA DISDB, Washington, D.C.  20305-2000 for
774:     review and approval.  DISA DISDB will forward plans to the Internet
775:     Activities Board for architectural review and, if required, a cleared


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1114.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 922:
919:                issuer          Name,
920:                list            SEQUENCE RCLEntry,
921:                lastUpdate      UTCTime,
922:                nextUpdate      UTCTime}
923:  

UTCTime found at line 923:
920:                list            SEQUENCE RCLEntry,
921:                lastUpdate      UTCTime,
922:                nextUpdate      UTCTime}
923:  
924:        RCLEntry        ::=     SEQUENCE {

UTCTime found at line 927:
924:        RCLEntry        ::=     SEQUENCE {
925:                subject         CertificateSerialNumber,
926:                revocationDate  UTCTime}
927:  
928:  3.4  Certificate Definition and Usage

UTCTime found at line 1296:
1293:  
1294:           Validity ::=    SEQUENCE{
1295:                   notBefore       UTCTime,
1296:                   notAfter        UTCTime}
1297:  

UTCTime found at line 1297:
1294:           Validity ::=    SEQUENCE{
1295:                   notBefore       UTCTime,
1296:                   notAfter        UTCTime}
1297:  
1298:           SubjectPublicKeyInfo ::=        SEQUENCE{


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1117.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 4965:
4962:          jwmanly%amherst.bitnet@MITVMA.MIT.EDU
4963:  [JWN10] Norris, James W         a02jwn1%niu.bitnet@CUNYVM.CUNY.EDU
4964:  [JY24]  Yu, Jessica             jyy@MERIT.EDU
4965:  [JY33]  Yoshida, Jun            ---none---
4966:  [KA4]   Auerbach, Karl          auerbach@CSL.SRI.COM


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1123.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2digit found at line 3239:
3236:           The syntax for the date is hereby changed to:
3237:  
3238:              date = 1*2DIGIT month 2*4DIGIT
3239:  
3240:  

century found at line 3253:
3250:  
3251:           All mail software SHOULD use 4-digit years in dates, to ease
3252:           the transition to the next century.
3253:  
3254:           There is a strong trend towards the use of numeric timezone


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1133.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 493:
490:     Telephone:      313 936-2655
491:     Fax:            313 747-3745
492:     EMail:          jyy@merit.edu
493:  
494:     Hans-Werner Braun


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1138.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 1471:
1468:     the full BNF easier to parse.
1469:  
1470:  3.3.5.  UTCTime
1471:  
1472:     Both UTCTime and the RFC 822 822.date-time syntax contain:  Year

UTCTime found at line 1473:
1470:  3.3.5.  UTCTime
1471:  
1472:     Both UTCTime and the RFC 822 822.date-time syntax contain:  Year
1473:     (lowest two digits), Month, Day of Month, hour, minute, second
1474:     (optional), and Timezone.  822.date-time also contains an optional

UTCTime found at line 1482:
1479:          In practice, a gateway will need to parse various illegal
1480:          variants on 822.date-time.  In cases where 822.date-time
1481:          cannot be parsed, it is recommended that the derived UTCTime
1482:          is set to the value at the time of translation.
1483:  

UTCTime found at line 1485:
1482:          is set to the value at the time of translation.
1483:  
1484:     The UTCTime format which specifies the timezone offset should be
1485:     used.
1486:  

UTCTime found at line 4469:
4466:  
4467:     The extended syntax of zone defined in the JNT Mail Protocol should
4468:     be used in the mapping of UTCTime defined in Chapter 3.
4469:  
4470:  6.  Lack of 822-MTS originator specification


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1147.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 9715:
9712:            cerns to security and management personnel at DDN facili-
9713:            ties.  It is available online, via kermit or anonymous FTP,
9714:            from nic.ddn.mil, in SCC:DDN-SECURITY-yy-nn.TXT (where "yy"
9715:            is the year and "nn" is the bulletin number).  The SCC pro-
9716:            vides immediate assistance with DDN-related host security

century found at line 1096:
1093:            "NETMON." These tools were independently developed, are
1094:            functionally different, run in different environments, and
1095:            are no more related than Richard Burton the 19th century
1096:            explorer and Richard Burton the 20th century actor.  BYU's
1097:            tool "NETMON" is listed as "NETMON (I)," MITRE's as "NETMON

century found at line 1097:
1094:            functionally different, run in different environments, and
1095:            are no more related than Richard Burton the 19th century
1096:            explorer and Richard Burton the 20th century actor.  BYU's
1097:            tool "NETMON" is listed as "NETMON (I)," MITRE's as "NETMON
1098:            (II)," and the tool from SNMP Research as "NETMON (III)."

2000 found at line 4134:
4131:                 libraries), but this has not been done.  Curses is very
4132:                 slow and cpu intensive on VMS, but the tool has been
4133:                 run in a window on a VAXstation 2000.  Just don't try
4134:                 to run it on a terminal connected to a 11/750.
4135:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1148.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 1475:
1472:     the full BNF easier to parse.
1473:  
1474:  3.3.5.  UTCTime
1475:  
1476:     Both UTCTime and the RFC 822 822.date-time syntax contain:  Year

UTCTime found at line 1477:
1474:  3.3.5.  UTCTime
1475:  
1476:     Both UTCTime and the RFC 822 822.date-time syntax contain:  Year
1477:     (lowest two digits), Month, Day of Month, hour, minute, second
1478:     (optional), and Timezone.  822.date-time also contains an optional

UTCTime found at line 1486:
1483:          In practice, a gateway will need to parse various illegal
1484:          variants on 822.date-time.  In cases where 822.date-time
1485:          cannot be parsed, it is recommended that the derived UTCTime
1486:          is set to the value at the time of translation.
1487:  

UTCTime found at line 1489:
1486:          is set to the value at the time of translation.
1487:  
1488:     The UTCTime format which specifies the timezone offset should be
1489:     used.
1490:  

UTCTime found at line 4566:
4563:  
4564:     The extended syntax of zone defined in the JNT Mail Protocol should
4565:     be used in the mapping of UTCTime defined in Chapter 3.
4566:  
4567:  6.  Lack of 822-MTS originator specification


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1152.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 937:
934:     Reservation Multiple-Access).
935:  
936:     Finally, Yechiam Yemeni (YY, Columbia University) discussed his work
937:     on a protocol silicon compiler.  In order to exploit the potential
938:     parallelism, he is planning to use one processor per connection.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1153.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 119:
116:  
117:  
118:  Date: ddd, dd mmm yy hh:mm:ss zzz
119:  From: listname-REQUEST@fqhn
120:  Reply-To: listname@fqhn

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 122:
119:  From: listname-REQUEST@fqhn
120:  Reply-To: listname@fqhn
121:  Subject: listname Digest Vyy #nn
122:  To: listname@fqhn
123:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 125:
122:  To: listname@fqhn
123:  
124:  listname Digest             ddd, dd mmm yy       Volume yy : Issue   nn
125:  
126:  Today's Topics:

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 137:
134:  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
135:  
136:  Date: ddd, dd mmm yy hh:mm:ss zzz
137:  From: Joe User <username@fqhn>
138:  Subject: Message One Subject

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 147:
144:  ------------------------------
145:  
146:  Date: ddd, dd mmm yy hh:mm:ss zzz
147:  From: Jane User <username@fqhn>
148:  Subject: Message Two Subject

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 157:
154:  ------------------------------
155:  
156:  End of listname Digest Vyy Issue #nn
157:  ************************************
158:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1161.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 322:
319:     on the protocol-ID
320:  
321:                                   03019000
322:  
323:  5.  Acknowledgements

2000 found at line 210:
207:     (1)  <nsap> is a hex string defining the nsap, e.g.,
208:  
209:                       "snmp"/NS+4900590800200038bafe00
210:  
211:     Similarly, SNMP traps are, by convention, sent to a manager listening

2000 found at line 291:
288:     (1)  <nsap> is a hex string defining the nsap, e.g.,
289:  
290:                       "snmp"/NS+4900590800200038bafe00
291:  
292:     Similarly, SNMP traps are, by convention, sent to a manager listening


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1164.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1267:
1264:     Phone:  (313) 936-3000
1265:  
1266:     Email:  JYY@MERIT.EDU
1267:  
1268:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1166.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 8270:
8267:     [JWN10]         Norris, James W.
8268:                     a02jwn1%niu.bitnet@CUNYVM.CUNY.EDU
8269:     [JY24]          Yu, Jessica              jyy@MERIT.EDU
8270:     [JY33]          Yoshida, Jun             ---none---
8271:     [JY35]          Young, Jeff              ---none---


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1167.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 89:
86:     are also likely play a role along with Switched Multi-megabit Data
87:     Service (SMDS) provided by telecommunications carriers.  It also
88:     would be fair to ask what role FTS-2000 might play in the system, at
89:     least in support of government access to the NREN, and possibly in
90:     support of national agency network facilities.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1173.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 72:
69:     only choice; I don't see any prospect of either the government or
70:     private enterprise building a monolithic, centralized, ubiquitous "Ma
71:     Datagram" network provider in this century.
72:  
73:  2. Responsibilities of Network Managers


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1176.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1435:
1432:                         "NO" SP text_line / "BAD" SP text_line)
1433:  
1434:     date            ::= string in form "dd-mmm-yy hh:mm:ss-zzz"
1435:  
1436:     envelope        ::= "(" env_date SP env_subject SP env_from SP


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1185.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 208:
205:        1.1MBps, no matter how high the theoretical transfer rate of the
206:        path.  This corresponds to cycling the sequence number space in
207:        Twrap= 2000 secs, which is safe in today's Internet.
208:  
209:        Based on this reasoning, an earlier RFC [McKenzie89] has cautioned


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1190.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 7630:
7627:                                       link failure
7628:  
7629:          2000  DefaultRecoveryTimeout Interval between successive
7630:                                       HELLOs to/from active neighbors
7631:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1191.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 925:
922:                65535  Hyperchannel                  RFC 1044
923:     65535
924:     32000             Just in case
925:                17914  16Mb IBM Token Ring           ref. [6]
926:     17914


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1203.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2102:
2099:                      "NO" SP text_line / "BAD" SP text_line)
2100:  
2101:  date            ::= string in form "dd-mmm-yy hh:mm:ss-zzz"
2102:  
2103:  envelope        ::= "(" env_date SP env_subject SP env_from SP

2000 found at line 2614:
2611:          question.  For example:
2612:  
2613:            tag42 FETCH 197 BODY 2000:3999
2614:  
2615:          would fetch the second two thousand bytes of the body of message


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1207.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 136:
133:        directory.  Information includes packet counts by NSS and byte
134:        counts for type of use (ftp, smtp, telnet, etc.).  Filenames are
135:        of the form 'NSFyy-mm.type'.
136:  
137:        Files are available for anonymous ftp; use 'guest' as the


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1210.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1548:
1545:     Franci Bigi (1)
1546:     CEC
1547:     Rue de la Loi 2000
1548:     B-1049
1549:     Brussels

2000 found at line 1756:
1753:     Rolf Speth (1)
1754:     CEC
1755:     Rue de la Loi 2000
1756:     B-1049
1757:     Brussels

2000 found at line 1773:
1770:     Jose Torcato (1), (2)
1771:     CEC, TR 61 0/10
1772:     Rue de la Loi 2000
1773:     B-1049
1774:     Brussels

2000 found at line 1801:
1798:     Karel De Vriendt (1)
1799:     CEC
1800:     Rue de la Loi 2000
1801:     B-1049
1802:     Brussels

2000 found at line 1837:
1834:     Rosalie Zobel (1) (2)
1835:     CEC
1836:     Rue de la Loi 2000
1837:     B-1049
1838:     Brussels


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1211.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 1591:
1588:  
1589:     westine 49% mconnect OSI3.NCSL.NIST.GOV
1590:     connecting to host OSI3.NCSL.NIST.GOV (0x6c300681), port 0x1900
1591:     connection open
1592:     220 osi3.ncsl.nist.gov sendmail 4.0/NIST(rbj/dougm) ready at

2000 found at line 2363:
2360:        Office Automation Division
2361:        Code H610
2362:        Washington, DC 20305-2000
2363:  
2364:        Hostname: DCA-EMS.DCA.MIL


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1218.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1249:
1246:     Rapport Communication, Inc.
1247:     3055 Q Street NW
1248:     Washington, DC  20007
1249:  
1250:     Tel: +1 202-342-2727


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1224.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 983:
980:        and placed in an ethernet packet).  120 request packets are sent
981:        each cycle (3 for each of 40 nodes), and 120 response packets are
982:        expected.  72000 bytes (240 packets at 300 bytes each) must be
983:        transferred during each poll cycle, merely to determine that the
984:        network is fine.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1244.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2481:
2478:              and concerns to security and management personnel at DDN
2479:              facilities.  It is available online, via kermit or anonymous
2480:              FTP, from the host NIC.DDN.MIL, in SCC:DDN-SECURITY-yy-
2481:              nn.TXT (where "yy" is the year and "nn" is the bulletin
2482:              number).  The SCC provides immediate assistance with DDN-

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2482:
2479:              facilities.  It is available online, via kermit or anonymous
2480:              FTP, from the host NIC.DDN.MIL, in SCC:DDN-SECURITY-yy-
2481:              nn.TXT (where "yy" is the year and "nn" is the bulletin
2482:              number).  The SCC provides immediate assistance with DDN-
2483:              related host security problems; call (800) 235-3155 (6:00


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1251.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 316:
313:             where growing above 100 network numbers seemed excessive.
314:             Todays number of networks in the global infrastructure
315:             exceeds 2000 connected networks, and many more if isolated
316:             network islands get included.
317:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1254.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 592:
589:     number of packet arrivals, over which packets are dropped with
590:     uniform probability.  For instance, in a sample implementation, if
591:     this interval spanned 2000 packet arrivals, and a suitable
592:     probability of drop was 0.001, then two random variables would be
593:     drawn in a uniform distribution in the range of 1 to 2,000.  The

2000 found at line 859:
856:     indicates that to get good, consistent performance, we may need to
857:     have up to 5 to 10 times the number of active source-destination
858:     pairs. In a typical gateway, this may require around 1000 to 2000
859:     queues.
860:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1255.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1361:
1358:     Rapport Communication, Inc.
1359:     3055 Q Street NW
1360:     Washington, DC  20007
1361:  
1362:     Tel: +1 202-342-2727


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1259.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 345:
342:     should never go back to any monopoly arrangement like the pre-
343:     divestiture AT&T which held back market-driven innovation in
344:     telecommunications for half a century.  Given the interconnection
345:     technology now available, we should never again have to accept the
346:     argument that we have to sacrifice interoperability for efficiency,

century found at line 594:
591:  
592:        In light of the possibilities for new service offerings by the
593:        21st century, as well as the growing importance of
594:        telecommunications and information services to US economic and
595:        social development, limiting our concept of universal service to

century found at line 744:
741:     If we have the vision and commitment to try this, the transformation
742:     of the network frontier from wilderness to civilization need not
743:     display the brutality of 19th century imperialism.  As commercial
744:     opportunities to offer applications and services develop,
745:     entrepreneurs will discover that ease of use sells. The normal,

2000 found at line 1115:
1112:     California v. FCC (9th Cir. 1990).
1113:  
1114:     18.  NTIA Telecomm 2000 at 79.
1115:  
1116:     19.  Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1270.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 594:
591:     Hopkinton, Mass. 01748
592:  
593:     Phone: (508) 435-2000
594:  
595:     Email: kasten@europa.clearpoint.com


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1274.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 1051:
1048:       lastModifiedTime ATTRIBUTE
1049:           WITH ATTRIBUTE-SYNTAX
1050:               uTCTimeSyntax
1051:       ::= {pilotAttributeType 23}
1052:  

UTCTime found at line 2990:
2987:       lastModifiedTime ATTRIBUTE
2988:           WITH ATTRIBUTE-SYNTAX
2989:               uTCTimeSyntax
2990:       ::= {pilotAttributeType 23}
2991:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1276.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 558:
555:          }
556:  
557:  EDBVersion ::= UTCTime                                              40
558:  
559:  ___________________Figure_2:__Replication_Protocol_____________________

UTCTime found at line 938:
935:          }
936:  
937:  EDBVersion ::= UTCTime
938:  END
939:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1283.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 317:
314:     on the protocol-ID
315:  
316:                                   03019000
317:  
318:     This is an X.25 protocol-ID assigned for local purposes.

2000 found at line 206:
203:     (1)  <nsap> is a hex string defining the nsap, e.g.,
204:  
205:                       "snmp"/NS+4900590800200038bafe00
206:  
207:     Similarly, SNMP traps are, by convention, sent to a manager listening

2000 found at line 278:
275:     (1)  <nsap> is a hex string defining the nsap, e.g.,
276:  
277:                       "snmp"/NS+4900590800200038bafe00
278:  
279:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1284.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1146:
1143:     Hopkinton Mass 01748
1144:  
1145:     Phone: 508-435-2000
1146:     EMail: kasten@europa.clearpoint.com
1147:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1285.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 219:
216:            -- The unique identifier for the FDDI station.  This is a
217:            -- string of 8 octets, represented as
218:            --                                X' yy yy xx xx xx xx xx xx'
219:            -- with the low order 6 octet (xx) from a unique IEEE
220:            -- assigned address.  The high order two bits of the IEEE

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 232:
229:  
230:            -- (Universal/Local) bit should both be zero.  The first two
231:            -- octets, the yy octets, are implementor-defined.
232:            --
233:            -- The representation of the address portion of the station id


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1290.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 549:
546:        Anonymous FTP to nis.nsf.net
547:        cd stats
548:        get nsfyy-mm.ptraffic  where yy is year, 91 and mm is month, 06
549:        get nsf91-06.ptraffic  ptraffic is the packet traffic
550:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 552:
549:        get nsf91-06.ptraffic  ptraffic is the packet traffic
550:  
551:        get nsfyy-mm.btraffic  where yy is year, 91 and mm is month, 06
552:        get nsf91-06.btraffic  btraffic is the byte traffic
553:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1292.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 3648:
3645:  
3646:  
3647:         When comparing attributes of UTCtime syntax, if the seconds field
3648:         is omitted, QUIPU does not perform the match correctly (i.e., the
3649:         seconds field in	the attribute values should be ignored,	but  are

2000 found at line 4158:
4155:  
4156:     UCOM.X 500 runs on: Sun 3, Sun 4, IBM RS 6000, Philips P 9000, DEC
4157:     machines, Bull DPX 2000, HP 9000/300, Siemens IN 6000 and 386-based
4158:     PCs.	 It can	easily be ported to any	UNIX machine.
4159:  

2000 found at line 4803:
4800:  HARDWARE PLATFORMS
4801:  
4802:     3Com's OSI/TCP CS/2000 and CS/2100.
4803:  
4804:  SOFTWARE PLATFORMS

2000 found at line 4807:
4804:  SOFTWARE PLATFORMS
4805:  
4806:     The "SW/2000-OT Vers	1.0" software runs on 3Com's OSI/TCP CS/2000 and
4807:     CS/2100, both stand-alone systems.
4808:  

2000 found at line 4812:
4809:  AVAILABILITY
4810:  
4811:     The dual-stack OSI/TCP terminal server and its "SW/2000-OT Vers 1.0"
4812:     software is available from:
4813:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1295.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 98:
95:     Rapport Communication
96:     3055 Q Street NW
97:     Washington, DC  20007
98:  
99:     Phone: +1 202-342-2727


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1303.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 189:
186:             TYPE NOTATION ::=
187:                               "LAST-UPDATED"
188:                                   value(update      UTCTime)
189:                               "PRODUCT-RELEASE"
190:                                   value(release     DisplayString)


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1305.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 428:
425:  mechanisms to synchronize time in principle to precisions in the order
426:  of nanoseconds while preserving a non-ambiguous date well into the next
427:  century. The protocol includes provisions to specify the characteristics
428:  and estimate the error of the local clock and the time server to which
429:  it may be synchronized. It also includes provisions for operation with a

century found at line 4529:
4526:  political and ritual needs characteristic of the societies in which they
4527:  flourished. Astronomical observations to establish the winter and summer
4528:  solstices were in use three to four millennia ago. By the 14th century
4529:  BC the Shang Chinese had established the solar year as 365.25 days and
4530:  the lunar month as 29.5 days. The lunisolar calendar, in which the

century found at line 4548:
4545:  with the Shang Chinese, the ancient Egyptians had thus established the
4546:  solar year at 365.25 days, or within about 11 minutes of the present
4547:  measured value. In 432 BC, about a century after the Chinese had done
4548:  so, the Greek astronomer Meton calculated there were 110 lunar months of
4549:  29 days and 125 lunar months of 30 days for a total of 235 lunar months

century found at line 4565:
4562:  not complete until 8 AD.
4563:  
4564:  The seven-day Sumerian week was introduced only in the fourth century AD
4565:  by Emperor Constantine I. During the Roman era a 15-year census cycle,
4566:  called the Indiction cycle, was instituted for taxation purposes. The

century found at line 4588:
4585:  but 14 of these were removed in the Gregorian calendar. While the
4586:  Gregorian calendar is in use throughout most of the world today, some
4587:  countries did not adopt it until early in the twentieth century.
4588:  While it remains a fascinating field for time historians, the above
4589:  narrative provides conclusive evidence that conjugating calendar dates

century found at line 4620:
4617:  sometimes used to represent dates near our own era in conventional time
4618:  and with fewer digits, is defined as MJD = JD <196> 2,400,000.5.
4619:  Following the convention that our century began at 0h on 1 January 1900,
4620:  at which time the tropical year was already 12h old, that eclectic
4621:  instant corresponds to MJD 15,020.0. Thus, the Julian timescale ticks in

century found at line 4640:
4637:  through observations of the Sun, Moon and planets. In 1958 the standard
4638:  second was defined as 1/31,556,925.9747 of the tropical year that began
4639:  this century. On this scale the tropical year is 365.2421987 days and
4640:  the lunar month - one complete revolution of the Moon around the Earth -
4641:  is 29.53059 days; however, the actual tropical year can be determined

1900 found at line 851:
848:  product of the protocol, a special timestamp format has been
849:  established. NTP timestamps are represented as a 64-bit unsigned fixed-
850:  point number, in seconds relative to 0h on 1 January 1900. The integer
851:  part is in the first 32 bits and the fraction part in the last 32 bits.
852:  This format allows convenient multiple-precision arithmetic and

1900 found at line 873:
870:  integer part) has been set and that the 64-bit field will overflow some
871:  time in 2036. Should NTP be in use in 2036, some external means will be
872:  necessary to qualify time relative to 1900 and time relative to 2036
873:  (and other multiples of 136 years). Timestamped data requiring such
874:  qualification will be so precious that appropriate means should be

1900 found at line 4620:
4617:  sometimes used to represent dates near our own era in conventional time
4618:  and with fewer digits, is defined as MJD = JD <196> 2,400,000.5.
4619:  Following the convention that our century began at 0h on 1 January 1900,
4620:  at which time the tropical year was already 12h old, that eclectic
4621:  instant corresponds to MJD 15,020.0. Thus, the Julian timescale ticks in

1900 found at line 4724:
4721:  always coincident with it. At 0h on 1 January 1972 (MJD 41,317.0), the
4722:  first tick of the UTC Era, the NTP clock was set to 2,272,060,800,
4723:  representing the number of standard seconds since 0h on 1 January 1900
4724:  (MJD 15,020.0). The insertion of leap seconds in UTC and subsequently
4725:  into NTP does not affect the UTC or NTP oscillator, only the conversion

2000 found at line 4489:
4486:  the Mid-Continent Chain, the deployment of LORAN-C transmitters now
4487:  provides complete coverage of the U.S. LORAN-C timing receivers, such as
4488:  the Austron 2000, are specialized and extremely expensive (up to
4489:  $20,000). They are used primarily to monitor local cesium clocks and are
4490:  not suited for unattended, automatic operation. While the LORAN-C system


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1309.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 48:
45:  
46:     As the pace of industry, science, and technological development
47:     quickened over the past century, it became increasingly probable that
48:     someone in a geographically distant location would be trying to solve
49:     the same problems you were trying to solve, or that someone in a


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1314.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1109:
1106:     00DE        YPosition              011F   0005   00000001  0000016C
1107:     00EA        Group4Options          0125   0004   00000001  00000002
1108:     00F6        ResolutionUnit         0128   0003   00000001  00020000
1109:     0102        Software               0131   0002   00000008  00000174
1110:     010E        DateTime               0132   0002   00000014  0000017C


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1323.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 320:
317:        1.1MBps, no matter how high the theoretical transfer rate of the
318:        path.  This corresponds to cycling the sequence number space in
319:        Twrap= 2000 secs, which is safe in today's Internet.
320:  
321:        It is important to understand that the culprit is not the larger


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1325.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 611:
608:        In addition, back issues of the Report are available for anonymous
609:        FTP from the host NIS.NSF.NET in the 'imr' directory with the file
610:        names in the form IMRYY-MM.TXT, where YY is the last two digits of
611:        the year and MM two digits for the month.  For example, the June
612:        1991 Report is in the file IMR91-06.TXT.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1327.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2618:
2615:          attributes remaining in the O/R address shall be encoded on
2616:          the LHS.  This is to ensure a reversible mapping. For
2617:          example, if the is an addres /S=XX/O=YY/ADMD=A/C=NN/ and a
2618:          mapping for /ADMD=A/C=NN/ is used, then /S=XX/O=YY/ is
2619:          encoded on the LHS.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2619:
2616:          the LHS.  This is to ensure a reversible mapping. For
2617:          example, if the is an addres /S=XX/O=YY/ADMD=A/C=NN/ and a
2618:          mapping for /ADMD=A/C=NN/ is used, then /S=XX/O=YY/ is
2619:          encoded on the LHS.
2620:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2665:
2662:  
2663:             C          = "XX"
2664:             ADMD       = "YY"
2665:             O          = "ZZ"
2666:             "RFC-822"  = "Smith(a)ZZ.YY.XX"

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2667:
2664:             ADMD       = "YY"
2665:             O          = "ZZ"
2666:             "RFC-822"  = "Smith(a)ZZ.YY.XX"
2667:  
2668:     This is mapped first to an RFC 822 address, and then back to the

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2673:
2670:  
2671:             C          = "XX"
2672:             ADMD       = "YY"
2673:             O          = "ZZ"
2674:             Surname    = "Smith"

UTCTime found at line 1483:
1480:     the full BNF easier to parse.
1481:  
1482:  3.3.5.  UTCTime
1483:  
1484:     Both UTCTime and the RFC 822 822.date-time syntax contain:  Year

UTCTime found at line 1485:
1482:  3.3.5.  UTCTime
1483:  
1484:     Both UTCTime and the RFC 822 822.date-time syntax contain:  Year
1485:     (lowest two digits), Month, Day of Month, hour, minute, second
1486:     (optional), and Timezone.  822.date-time also contains an optional

UTCTime found at line 1494:
1491:          In practice, a gateway will need to parse various illegal
1492:          variants on 822.date-time.  In cases where 822.date-time
1493:          cannot be parsed, it is recommended that the derived UTCTime
1494:          is set to the value at the time of translation.
1495:  

UTCTime found at line 1497:
1494:          is set to the value at the time of translation.
1495:  
1496:     When mapping to X.400, the UTCTime format which specifies the
1497:     timezone offset shall be used.
1498:  

UTCTime found at line 5143:
5140:  
5141:        The extended syntax of zone defined in the JNT Mail Protocol shall
5142:        be used in the mapping of UTCTime defined in Chapter 3.
5143:  
5144:     7.  Lack of 822-MTS originator specification


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1330.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1770:
1767:     While ESnet will provide X.400 routing service for systems, it cannot
1768:     provide routing via commercial X.400 carriers at this time.  The
1769:     FTS-2000 charge for routing X.400 messages is $.45 (US) plus X.25
1770:     packet charges.  This could result in a charge of several dollars for
1771:     large messages, a real possibility with the multi-media capacity of


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1336.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 378:
375:             where growing above 100 network numbers seemed excessive.
376:             Todays number of networks in the global infrastructure
377:             exceeds 2000 connected networks, and many more if isolated
378:             network islands get included.
379:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1338.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 401:
398:     3.2.  Historic growth rates
399:  
400:        MM/YY     ROUTES                        MM/YY     ROUTES
401:                  ADVERTISED                              ADVERTISED
402:        ------------------------                -----------------------

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1060:
1057:        1071 Beal Ave.
1058:        Ann Arbor, MI 48109
1059:        email: jyy@merit.edu
1060:  
1061:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1340.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 3390:
3387:     AB-00-03-00-00-00	   6004	   DEC Local Area Transport (LAT) - old
3388:     AB-00-04-00-xx-xx	   ????	   Reserved DEC	customer private use
3389:     AB-00-04-01-xx-yy	   6007	   DEC Local Area VAX Cluster groups
3390:  				   Sys.	Communication Architecture (SCA)
3391:     CF-00-00-00-00-00	   9000	   Ethernet Configuration Test protocol

1900 found at line 4066:
4063:         014.000.000.063	 2422-650-23500	00   Tollpost-Globe AS	   [OXG]
4064:         014.000.000.064	 2422-330-02500	00   Tollpost-Globe AS	   [OXG]
4065:         014.000.000.065	 2422-350-01900	00   Tollpost-Globe AS	   [OXG]
4066:         014.000.000.066	 2422-410-00700	00   Tollpost-Globe AS	   [OXG]
4067:         014.000.000.067	 2422-539-06200	00   Tollpost-Globe AS	   [OXG]

2000 found at line 1300:
1297:     nkd		   1650/tcp
1298:     nkd		   1650/udp
1299:     callbook	   2000/tcp
1300:     callbook	   2000/udp
1301:     dc		   2001/tcp

2000 found at line 1301:
1298:     nkd		   1650/udp
1299:     callbook	   2000/tcp
1300:     callbook	   2000/udp
1301:     dc		   2001/tcp
1302:     wizard	   2001/udp    curry

2000 found at line 4013:
4010:         014.000.000.018	 2624-522-80900	52   FGAN-SIEMENS-X25	   [GB7]
4011:         014.000.000.019	 2041-170-10000	00   SHAPE-X25		   [JFW]
4012:         014.000.000.020	 5052-737-20000	50   UQNET		   [AXH]
4013:         014.000.000.021	 3020-801-00057	50   DMC-CRC1		   [VXT]
4014:         014.000.000.022	 2624-522-80329	02   FGAN-FGANFFMVAX-X25   [GB7]

2000 found at line 4838:
4835:     AIX/370		     LOCUS		       SWIFT
4836:     AIX-PS/2		     MACOS		       TAC
4837:     BS-2000		     MINOS		       TANDEM
4838:     CEDAR		     MOS		       TENEX
4839:     CGW			     MPE5		       TOPS10

2000 found at line 5188:
5185:     HAZELTINE-1520			 IBM-3278-3
5186:     HAZELTINE-1552			 IBM-3278-4
5187:     HAZELTINE-2000			 IBM-3278-5
5188:     HAZELTINE-ESPRIT			 IBM-3279-2
5189:     HITACHI-5601				 IBM-3279-3


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1348.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 143:
140:     Or in net 11110031f67293.nsap-in-addr.arpa:
141:  
142:     67894444333322220000  NSAP-PTR        host.school.de.
143:  
144:     The RR data is the ASCII representation of the digits.  It is encoded


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1357.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 260:
257:  
258:  ID (M) -- This is the second field of any record.  It is also a
259:          mandatory field.  Its format is "ID:: XXX//YYY", where XXX is
260:          the publisher-ID (the controlled symbol of the publisher)
261:          and YYY is the ID (e.g., report number) of the publication as

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 262:
259:          mandatory field.  Its format is "ID:: XXX//YYY", where XXX is
260:          the publisher-ID (the controlled symbol of the publisher)
261:          and YYY is the ID (e.g., report number) of the publication as
262:          assigned by the publisher.  This ID is typically printed on
263:          the cover, and may contain slashes.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 682:
679:  
680:     In order to avoid conflicts among the symbols of the publishing
681:     organizations (the XXX part of the "ID:: XXX//YYY") it is suggested
682:     that the various organizations that publish reports (such as
683:     universities, departments, and laboratories) register their

2-digit found at line 291:
288:  
289:          The format for ENTRY date is "Month Day, Year".  The month must
290:          be alphabetic (spelled out).    The "Day" is a 1- or 2-digit
291:          number.  The "Year" is a 4-digit number.
292:  

2-digit found at line 457:
454:  DATE (O) -- The publication date.  The formats are "Month Year" and
455:          "Month Day, Year".  The month must be alphabetic (spelled out).
456:          The "Day" is a 1- or 2-digit number.  The "Year" is a 4-digit
457:          number.
458:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1361.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 132:
129:     main product of the protocol, a special timestamp format has been
130:     established. NTP timestamps are represented as a 64-bit unsigned
131:     fixed-point number, in seconds relative to 0h on 1 January 1900. The
132:     integer part is in the first 32 bits and the fraction part in the
133:     last 32 bits. This format allows convenient multiple-precision

1900 found at line 145:
142:     overflow some time in 2036. Should NTP or SNTP be in use in 2036,
143:     some external means will be necessary to qualify time relative to
144:     1900 and time relative to 2036 (and other multiples of 136 years).
145:     Timestamped data requiring such qualification will be so precious
146:     that appropriate means should be readily available. There will exist


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1379.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 847:
844:  
845:  
846:     objective an MSL of at least 2000 seconds.  If there were no TIME-
847:     WAIT delay, the ultimate limit on transaction rate would be set by
848:     speed-of-light delays in the network and by the latency of host

2000 found at line 988:
985:        the official delay of 240 seconds, formula [1] implies a upper
986:        bound (as RTT -> 0) of TRmax = 268 Tps; with our target MSL of
987:        2000 sec, TRmax = 32 Tps.  These values are unacceptably low.
988:  
989:        To improve this transaction rate, we could use TCP timestamps to

2000 found at line 1079:
1076:        segment lifetime MSL.  For reasonable limiting values of R, Ts,
1077:        and MSL, formula [6] leads to a very low value of TRmax.  For
1078:        example, with MSL= 2000 secs, R=10**9 Bps, and Ts = 0.5 sec, TRmax
1079:        < 2*10**-3 Tps.
1080:  

2000 found at line 1136:
1133:             TRmax * MSL < 2**31
1134:  
1135:        For example, if MSL =  2000 seconds then TRmax < 10**6 Tp.  These
1136:        are acceptable limits for transaction processing.  However, if
1137:        they are not, we could augment CC with TCP timestamps to obtain

2000 found at line 1276:
1273:  
1274:       (a) no timestamps       2**31/MSL        MSL        3rd sequence
1275:                          e.g., MSL=2000 sec                      space
1276:                               TRmax = 10**6
1277:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1405.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 378:
375:     maps into
376:  
377:          C=xx; ADMD=yyy; PRMD=zzz; O=ooo; OU=uuu; DD.Dnet=net;
378:          DD.Mail-11=route::node::localpart;
379:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 384:
381:  
382:          xx  = country code of the gateway performing the conversion
383:          yyy = Admd of the gateway performing the conversion
384:          zzz = Prmd of the gateway performing the conversion
385:          ooo = Organisation of the gateway performing the conversion

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 474:
471:       it is connected to. In this case the mapping is trivial:
472:  
473:          C=xx; ADMD=yyy; PRMD=zzz; O=ooo; OU=uuu; DD.Dnet=net;
474:          DD.Mail-11=route::node::localpart;
475:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 477:
474:          DD.Mail-11=route::node::localpart;
475:  
476:     (see sect. 5.2 for explication of 'xx','yyy','zzz','ooo','uuu','net')
477:  
478:     maps into

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 487:
484:       described into section 5.4 apply:
485:  
486:          C=xx; ADMD=yyy; PRMD=www; DD.Dnet=net;
487:          DD.Mail-11=route::node::localpart;
488:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 492:
489:     maps into
490:  
491:          gwnode::gw%"C=xx;ADMD=yyy;PRMD=www;DD.Dnet=net;
492:          DD.Mail-11=route::node::localpart;"
493:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 595:
592:     maps into
593:  
594:         C=xx; ADMD=yyy; DD.Dnet=net;
595:         DD.Mail-11=route::gwnode::gw(p)(q)x400-text-address(q);
596:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1409.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 311:
308:                                          IAC SB AUTHENTICATION REPLY
309:                                          KERBEROS_V4 CLIENT|MUTUAL
310:                                          RESPONSE yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy
311:                                          IAC SE
312:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1411.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 163:
160:                                          IAC SB AUTHENTICATION REPLY
161:                                          KERBEROS_V4 CLIENT|MUTUAL
162:                                          RESPONSE yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy
163:                                          IAC SE
164:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1415.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 2814:
2811:        2         1016 Grouping threshold violation       |    503
2812:        2         1017 Inconsistent PDU request           |    503
2813:        2         2000 Association with user not allowed  |    532
2814:        2         2002 Unsupported service class          |    504
2815:        0         2003 Unsupported functional unit        |    211


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1416.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 318:
315:                                          IAC SB AUTHENTICATION REPLY
316:                                          KERBEROS_V4 CLIENT|MUTUAL
317:                                          RESPONSE yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy
318:                                          IAC SE
319:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1417.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 156:
153:                         c/o Rapport Communication
154:                         3055 Q Street NW
155:                         Washington, DC 20007
156:                         US
157:  

2000 found at line 198:
195:     Rapport Communication
196:     3055 Q Street NW
197:     Washington, DC  20007
198:  
199:     Phone: +1 202-342-2727


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1421.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1148:
1145:      BAoTF1JTQSBEYXRhIFNlY3VyaXR5LCBJbmMuMQ8wDQYDVQQLEwZCZXRhIDExDTAL
1146:      BgNVBAsTBFRMQ0EwHhcNOTEwOTAxMDgwMDAwWhcNOTIwOTAxMDc1OTU5WjBRMQsw
1147:      CQYDVQQGEwJVUzEgMB4GA1UEChMXUlNBIERhdGEgU2VjdXJpdHksIEluYy4xDzAN
1148:      BgNVBAsTBkJldGEgMTEPMA0GA1UECxMGTk9UQVJZMHAwCgYEVQgBAQICArwDYgAw
1149:      XwJYCsnp6lQCxYykNlODwutF/jMJ3kL+3PjYyHOwk+/9rLg6X65B/LD4bJHtO5XW

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1150:
1147:      CQYDVQQGEwJVUzEgMB4GA1UEChMXUlNBIERhdGEgU2VjdXJpdHksIEluYy4xDzAN
1148:      BgNVBAsTBkJldGEgMTEPMA0GA1UECxMGTk9UQVJZMHAwCgYEVQgBAQICArwDYgAw
1149:      XwJYCsnp6lQCxYykNlODwutF/jMJ3kL+3PjYyHOwk+/9rLg6X65B/LD4bJHtO5XW
1150:      cqAz/7R7XhjYCm0PcqbdzoACZtIlETrKrcJiDYoP+DkZ8k1gCk7hQHpbIwIDAQAB
1151:      MA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBAgUAA38AAICPv4f9Gx/tY4+p+4DB7MV+tKZnvBoy8zgoMGOx

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1256:
1253:      BAoTF1JTQSBEYXRhIFNlY3VyaXR5LCBJbmMuMQ8wDQYDVQQLEwZCZXRhIDExDTAL
1254:      BgNVBAsTBFRMQ0EwHhcNOTEwOTAxMDgwMDAwWhcNOTIwOTAxMDc1OTU5WjBRMQsw
1255:      CQYDVQQGEwJVUzEgMB4GA1UEChMXUlNBIERhdGEgU2VjdXJpdHksIEluYy4xDzAN
1256:      BgNVBAsTBkJldGEgMTEPMA0GA1UECxMGTk9UQVJZMHAwCgYEVQgBAQICArwDYgAw
1257:      XwJYCsnp6lQCxYykNlODwutF/jMJ3kL+3PjYyHOwk+/9rLg6X65B/LD4bJHtO5XW

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1258:
1255:      CQYDVQQGEwJVUzEgMB4GA1UEChMXUlNBIERhdGEgU2VjdXJpdHksIEluYy4xDzAN
1256:      BgNVBAsTBkJldGEgMTEPMA0GA1UECxMGTk9UQVJZMHAwCgYEVQgBAQICArwDYgAw
1257:      XwJYCsnp6lQCxYykNlODwutF/jMJ3kL+3PjYyHOwk+/9rLg6X65B/LD4bJHtO5XW
1258:      cqAz/7R7XhjYCm0PcqbdzoACZtIlETrKrcJiDYoP+DkZ8k1gCk7hQHpbIwIDAQAB
1259:      MA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBAgUAA38AAICPv4f9Gx/tY4+p+4DB7MV+tKZnvBoy8zgoMGOx


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1422.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 1596:
1593:  
1594:     Validity ::=    SEQUENCE{
1595:             notBefore       UTCTime,
1596:             notAfter        UTCTime}
1597:  

UTCTime found at line 1597:
1594:     Validity ::=    SEQUENCE{
1595:             notBefore       UTCTime,
1596:             notAfter        UTCTime}
1597:  
1598:     SubjectPublicKeyInfo ::=        SEQUENCE{

UTCTime found at line 1640:
1637:             signature       AlgorithmIdentifier,
1638:             issuer          Name,
1639:             lastUpdate      UTCTime,
1640:             nextUpdate      UTCTime,
1641:             revokedCertificates

UTCTime found at line 1641:
1638:             issuer          Name,
1639:             lastUpdate      UTCTime,
1640:             nextUpdate      UTCTime,
1641:             revokedCertificates
1642:                             SEQUENCE OF CRLEntry OPTIONAL}

UTCTime found at line 1647:
1644:     CRLEntry ::= SEQUENCE{
1645:             userCertificate SerialNumber,
1646:             revocationDate UTCTime}
1647:  
1648:  References

century found at line 463:
460:     confusion relating to daylight savings time.  Note that UTCT
461:     expresses the value of a year modulo 100 (with no indication of
462:     century), hence comparisons involving dates in different centuries
463:     must be performed with care.
464:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1432.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 711:
708:            Digital Press
709:            buddenhagen@cecv01.enet.dec.com McGraw-Hill
710:            617-276-1498                    212-512-2000
711:            fax: 617-276-4314               1221 Ave. of the Americas
712:            Digital Equipment Corporation   New York, NY 10020


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1437.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 185:
182:     generation of the X.400 specification, X.400-1996.  This will give
183:     the community ample time to define a more complete specification for
184:     matter transport as part of X.400-2000, and possibly even a readily-
185:     implementable specification as part of X.400-2004, although some will
186:     no doubt argue that this would be too strong a break with tradition.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1440.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 332:
329:     The time stamp on the file as it appears at the sending site may be
330:     sent and applied to the copy at the receiving site.  The form is US
331:     mm/dd/yy and hh:mm:ss.  A time zone is optional.  If the time zone is
332:     omitted, local time is assumed.  If the DATE command is omitted, time
333:     and date of arrival are assumed.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1442.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 362:
359:            BEGIN
360:                TYPE NOTATION ::=
361:                              "LAST-UPDATED" value(Update UTCTime)
362:                              "ORGANIZATION" Text
363:                              "CONTACT-INFO" Text

UTCTime found at line 378:
375:                            | Revisions Revision
376:                Revision ::=
377:                              "REVISION" value(Update UTCTime)
378:                              "DESCRIPTION" Text
379:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1453.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 516:
513:  
514:     [XTP92]     Xpress Transfer Protocol, version 3.6, XTP Forum,
515:                 1900 State Street, Suite D, Santa Barbara, California
516:                 93101 USA, January 11, 1992.
517:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1458.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1026:
1023:     Reading, MA 01867
1024:  
1025:     Phone:  (617) 942-2000
1026:     EMail:  rebraudes@tasc.com
1027:  

2000 found at line 1035:
1032:     Reading, MA 01867
1033:  
1034:     Phone:  (617) 942-2000
1035:     EMail: gszabele@tasc.com
1036:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1465.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 499:
496:                  Switzerland
497:  
498:        <Update-info> ::= "Update: FORMAT=V3; DATE=" 'yymmdd' \
499:                              "; START=" 'yymmdd' \
500:                              ["; END=" 'yymmdd'] <CR>

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 500:
497:  
498:        <Update-info> ::= "Update: FORMAT=V3; DATE=" 'yymmdd' \
499:                              "; START=" 'yymmdd' \
500:                              ["; END=" 'yymmdd'] <CR>
501:                  The <Update-info> contains also the format identifier.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 501:
498:        <Update-info> ::= "Update: FORMAT=V3; DATE=" 'yymmdd' \
499:                              "; START=" 'yymmdd' \
500:                              ["; END=" 'yymmdd'] <CR>
501:                  The <Update-info> contains also the format identifier.
502:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 512:
509:  
510:                  The date of the last update of a document is given in
511:                  the form 'yymmdd'.
512:                  A start date must be set.  A document can be published
513:                  this way before the information in it is valid.  (This

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1673:
1670:                              | <DirectoryName> )
1671:  
1672:        <Update-info> ::= "Update: FORMAT=V3; DATE=" 'yymmdd' \
1673:                              "; START=" 'yymmdd' \
1674:                              ["; END=" 'yymmdd'] <CR>

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1674:
1671:  
1672:        <Update-info> ::= "Update: FORMAT=V3; DATE=" 'yymmdd' \
1673:                              "; START=" 'yymmdd' \
1674:                              ["; END=" 'yymmdd'] <CR>
1675:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1675:
1672:        <Update-info> ::= "Update: FORMAT=V3; DATE=" 'yymmdd' \
1673:                              "; START=" 'yymmdd' \
1674:                              ["; END=" 'yymmdd'] <CR>
1675:  
1676:        <window-size> ::= "RTS-window-size: " \


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1467.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 408:
405:  
406:     [6] Solensky, F., Internet Growth Charts, "big-internet" mailing
407:         list, munnari.oz.au:big-internet/nsf-netnumbers-<yymm>.ps
408:  
409:  9. Other relevant documents


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1470.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 247:
244:  
245:     DATE OF MOST RECENT UPDATE TO THIS CATALOG ENTRY
246:             <YYMMDD>
247:  
248:  Keywords

2000 found at line 4696:
4693:                 libraries), but this has not been done.  Curses is very
4694:                 slow and cpu intensive on VMS, but the tool has been
4695:                 run in a window on a VAXstation 2000.  Just don't try
4696:                 to run it on a terminal connected to a 11/750.
4697:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1479.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 752:
749:     We note that none of the IDPR protocols contain explicit provisions
750:     for dealing with an exhausted timestamp space.  As timestamp space
751:     exhaustion will not occur until well into the next century, we expect
752:     timestamp space viability to outlast the IDPR protocols.
753:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1486.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 745:
742:          Date: Sun, 11 Apr 1993 20:34:12 -0800
743:          Subject: Comments on "An Experiment in Remote Printing"
744:          Message-ID: <19930411203412000.123@tpd.org>
745:          MIME-Version: 1.0
746:          Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1488.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 302:
299:  2.21.  UTC Time
300:  
301:     Values of type uTCTimeSyntax are encoded as if they were Printable
302:     Strings with the strings containing a UTCTime value.
303:  

UTCTime found at line 303:
300:  
301:     Values of type uTCTimeSyntax are encoded as if they were Printable
302:     Strings with the strings containing a UTCTime value.
303:  
304:  2.22.  Guide (search guide)

UTCTime found at line 377:
374:   <algorithm-id> ::= <oid> '#' <algorithm-parameters>
375:  
376:   <utc-time> ::= an encoded UTCTime value
377:  
378:   <hex-string> ::= <hex-digit> | <hex-digit> <hex-string>


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1500.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1950:
1947:                                         The text version is sent.
1948:  
1949:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1950:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1951:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1951:
1948:  
1949:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1950:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1951:  
1952:           help                          to get information on how to use


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1507.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 5111:
5108:  
5109:     Validity ::= SEQUENCE {
5110:             NotBefore       UTCTime,
5111:             NotAfter        UTCTime
5112:             }

UTCTime found at line 5112:
5109:     Validity ::= SEQUENCE {
5110:             NotBefore       UTCTime,
5111:             NotAfter        UTCTime
5112:             }
5113:  

UTCTime found at line 6297:
6294:     Version ::=      INTEGER { 1988(0)} SerialNumber ::= INTEGER Validity
6295:     ::=     SEQUENCE{
6296:             notBefore               UTCTime,
6297:             notAfter                UTCTime}
6298:  

UTCTime found at line 6298:
6295:     ::=     SEQUENCE{
6296:             notBefore               UTCTime,
6297:             notAfter                UTCTime}
6298:  
6299:     SubjectPublicKeyInfo  ::=  SEQUENCE {


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1512.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 243:
240:            FddiSMTStationIdType ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))
241:            -- The unique identifier for the FDDI station.  This is a
242:            -- string of 8 octets, represented as X' yy yy xx xx xx xx
243:            -- xx xx' with the low order 6 octet (xx) from a unique IEEE
244:            -- assigned address.  The high order two bits of the IEEE

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 248:
245:            -- address, the group address bit and the administration bit
246:            -- (Universal/Local) bit should both be zero.  The first two
247:            -- octets, the yy octets, are implementor-defined.
248:            --
249:            -- The representation of the address portion of the station id


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1519.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 401:
398:     3.2  Historic growth rates
399:  
400:        MM/YY     ROUTES                        MM/YY     ROUTES
401:                  ADVERTISED                              ADVERTISED
402:        ------------------------                -----------------------

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1318:
1315:     Ann Arbor, MI 48109
1316:  
1317:     EMail: jyy@merit.edu
1318:  
1319:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1527.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 793:
790:     ubiquitous as the current telephone network and provides all
791:     Americans with access to information in much the same way as public
792:     libraries were created for a similar purpose a century ago.
793:  
794:     Congress must understand that the NREN is not just a new technology

century found at line 875:
872:     regulated companies from becoming viable players.  We must realize
873:     that we are about to enter a power struggle for the control of the
874:     information resources of the 21st century that promises to be every
875:     bit as harsh and bruising as the power struggle for natural resources
876:     was at the end of the last century.

century found at line 877:
874:     information resources of the 21st century that promises to be every
875:     bit as harsh and bruising as the power struggle for natural resources
876:     was at the end of the last century.
877:  
878:     While the intentions of most appear to be good, as this study has


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1537.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 165:
162:     Example: zone file for foo.xx:
163:  
164:     pqr          MX 100  relay.yy.
165:     xyz          MX 100  relay.yy           (no trailing dot!)
166:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 166:
163:  
164:     pqr          MX 100  relay.yy.
165:     xyz          MX 100  relay.yy           (no trailing dot!)
166:  
167:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 177:
174:     When fully written out this stands for:
175:  
176:        pqr.foo.xx.  MX 100  relay.yy.
177:        xyz.foo.xx.  MX 100  relay.yy.foo.xx.   (name extension!)
178:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 178:
175:  
176:        pqr.foo.xx.  MX 100  relay.yy.
177:        xyz.foo.xx.  MX 100  relay.yy.foo.xx.   (name extension!)
178:  
179:  6. Missing secondary servers

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 256:
253:  
254:           foo.xx.      MX 100  gateway.xx.
255:                        MX 200  fallback.yy.
256:           *.foo.xx.    MX 100  gateway.xx.
257:                        MX 200  fallback.yy.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 258:
255:                        MX 200  fallback.yy.
256:           *.foo.xx.    MX 100  gateway.xx.
257:                        MX 200  fallback.yy.
258:  8. Hostnames
259:  

2000 found at line 89:
86:            86400 ; Refresh     24 hours
87:             7200 ; Retry        2 hours
88:          2592000 ; Expire      30 days
89:           345600 ; Minimum TTL  4 days
90:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1540.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1838:
1835:                                         The text version is sent.
1836:  
1837:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1838:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1839:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1839:
1836:  
1837:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1838:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1839:  
1840:           help                          to get information on how to use


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1555.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 155:
152:     In addition, Listserv usually maintains automatic archives of all
153:     postings to a list.  These archives, contained in the file "listname
154:     LOGyymm", do not contain the MIME headers, so all encoding
155:     information will be lost.  This is a limitation of the Listserv
156:     software.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1564.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 811:
808:  
809:     The following searches should be tried.  Unless otherwise stated, the
810:     "XXX" or "YYY" part of the search filter should be chosen in such a
811:     way as to return a single result.  Unless stated otherwise the
812:     results should return all attributes for the entry.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 848:
845:  
846:             objectClass=person AND
847:             (commonName=XXX* OR telephoneNumber=*YYY)
848:  
849:     75. Search returning all entries (i.e., 100 entries in the single

2000 found at line 527:
524:  
525:     42. If the DSA runs as a static server, state the start-up time for a
526:         DSA with a database of 20000 entries.  If this varies widely
527:         according to configuration options, give figures for the various
528:         options.  .......................................................

2000 found at line 709:
706:  
707:     i.  The tests should be made against an organisational database of
708:         20000 entries.  Some tests are against subsets of this data, and
709:         so the database should be set up according to the following
710:         instructions.

2000 found at line 713:
710:         instructions.
711:  
712:         Create an organisational DSA with 20000 entries below the
713:         organisation node.  Sub-divide this data into a number of
714:         organisational units, one of which should contain 1000 entries,

2000 found at line 808:
805:         unit.
806:  
807:     ii. An organisation subtree search, on the subtree of 20000 entries.
808:  
809:     The following searches should be tried.  Unless otherwise stated, the

2000 found at line 851:
848:  
849:     75. Search returning all entries (i.e., 100 entries in the single
850:         level search, and all 20000 entries in the subtree search:
851:  
852:             objectClass=*


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1578.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1946:
1943:     700 13th Street, NW
1944:     Suite 950
1945:     Washington, DC  20005
1946:     USA
1947:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1589.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1979:
1976:        presumably with negligible frequency error.
1977:  
1978:        #define MAXPHASE 512000      /* max phase error (us) */
1979:        #ifdef PPS_SYNC
1980:        #define MAXFREQ 100          /* max frequency error (ppm) */


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1593.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1088:
1085:                             response(6)
1086:  
1087:    --              enumeration values between 2000 and 3999 are reserved
1088:    --              for IP socket traces,
1089:  

2000 found at line 1149:
1146:                             testReq(26),
1147:  
1148:    --              enumeration values between 2000 and 3999 are reserved
1149:    --              for IP socket traces.
1150:                             ipTestFrame(2001),


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1594.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 379:
376:                                         The text version is sent.
377:  
378:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
379:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
380:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 380:
377:  
378:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
379:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
380:  
381:           help                          to get information on how to use

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 574:
571:        In addition, back issues of the Report are available for anonymous
572:        FTP from the host ftp.isi.edu in the in-notes/imr directory, with
573:        the file names in the form imryymm.txt, where yy is the last two
574:        digits of the year and mm two digits for the month.  For example,
575:        the July 1992 Report is in the file imr9207.txt.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1595.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 300:
297:  
298:             ifSpeed           Speed of line rate for SONET/SDH,
299:                               (e.g., 155520000 bps).
300:  
301:             ifPhysAddress     The value of the Circuit Identifier.

2000 found at line 357:
354:             ifSpeed           set to speed of SONET/SDH path
355:                               (e.g., an STS-1 path has a
356:                               rate of 50112000 bps.)
357:  
358:             ifPhysAddress     Circuit Identifier or OCTET STRING of


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1600.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1950:
1947:                                         The text version is sent.
1948:  
1949:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1950:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1951:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1951:
1948:  
1949:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1950:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1951:  
1952:           help                          to get information on how to use


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1607.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 12:
9:  
10:  
11:                        A VIEW FROM THE 21ST CENTURY
12:  
13:  Status of this Memo

century found at line 60:
57:  Cerf                                                            [Page 1]
58:  
59:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
60:  
61:  

century found at line 116:
113:  Cerf                                                            [Page 2]
114:  
115:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
116:  
117:  

century found at line 172:
169:  Cerf                                                            [Page 3]
170:  
171:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
172:  
173:  

century found at line 228:
225:  Cerf                                                            [Page 4]
226:  
227:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
228:  
229:  

century found at line 284:
281:  Cerf                                                            [Page 5]
282:  
283:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
284:  
285:  

century found at line 340:
337:  Cerf                                                            [Page 6]
338:  
339:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
340:  
341:  

century found at line 396:
393:  Cerf                                                            [Page 7]
394:  
395:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
396:  
397:  

century found at line 452:
449:  Cerf                                                            [Page 8]
450:  
451:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
452:  
453:  

century found at line 508:
505:  Cerf                                                            [Page 9]
506:  
507:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
508:  
509:  

century found at line 564:
561:  Cerf                                                           [Page 10]
562:  
563:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
564:  
565:  

century found at line 620:
617:  Cerf                                                           [Page 11]
618:  
619:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
620:  
621:  

century found at line 676:
673:  Cerf                                                           [Page 12]
674:  
675:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
676:  
677:  

century found at line 732:
729:  Cerf                                                           [Page 13]
730:  
731:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
732:  
733:  

2000 found at line 663:
660:     transmission, switching and computing in a cost-effective
661:     way.  For a long time, this technology involved rather
662:     bulky equipment - some of the early 3DV clips from 2000-
663:     2005 showed rooms full of gear required to steer beams
664:     around. A very interesting combination of fiber optics and


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1608.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 240:
237:       provider   :: DistinguishedNameSyntax,
238:        /* points to network provider */
239:       onlineDate :: uTCTimeSyntax
240:        /* date when network got connected to the Internet */
241:  

UTCTime found at line 370:
367:       asGuardian :: DistinguishedNameSyntax, */
368:        /* DN of guardian of this AS */
369:       lastModifiedDate :: UTCtimeSyntax */
370:        /* important as routes change frequently */
371:  

UTCTime found at line 423:
420:           that the number was assigned to. This does not
421:           imply that assTo "owns" this number now. */
422:       assDate :: uTCTimeSyntax,
423:        /* date of assignment for this number */
424:       nicHandle :: CaseIgnoreStringSyntax,

UTCTime found at line 1048:
1045:     speed:                       id-nw-at.10    :numericString
1046:     traffic:                     id-nw-at.11    :numericString
1047:     configurationDate:           id-nw-at.12    :utcTime
1048:     configurationHistory:        id-nw-at.13    :caseIgnoreString
1049:     nodeName,nd:                 id-nw-at.14    :caseIgnoreString

UTCTime found at line 1071:
1068:  
1069:  
1070:     onlineDate:                  id-nw-at.27    :utcTime
1071:     ipNodeName,IPnd:             id-nw-at.28    :caseIgnoreString
1072:     protocol:                    id-nw-at.29    :caseIgnoreString

UTCTime found at line 1083:
1080:     assBy:                       id-nw-at.37    :DN
1081:     assTo:                       id-nw-at.38    :DN
1082:     assDate:                     id-nw-at.39    :utcTime
1083:     nicHandle:                   id-nw-at.40    :caseIgnoreString
1084:     relNwElement:                id-nw-at.41    :DN


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1609.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 588:
585:        /* (average) use in percent of nominal bandwidth
586:              [ this needs more specification later ] */
587:       configurationDate ::  uTCTimeSyntax,
588:        /* date when network was configured in current
589:              shape */


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1610.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1950:
1947:                                         The text version is sent.
1948:  
1949:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1950:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1951:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1951:
1948:  
1949:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1950:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1951:  
1952:           help                          to get information on how to use

century found at line 926:
923:               An Experimental protocol.
924:  
925:        1607 - A View from the 21st Century
926:  
927:               This is an information document and does not specify any


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1614.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1565:
1562:     The general format of a Gopher+ view descriptor is:
1563:  
1564:        xxx/yyy zzz: <nnnK>
1565:  
1566:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1575:
1572:  
1573:  
1574:     where xxx is a general type-of-information advisory, yyy is what
1575:     information format you need understand to interpret this information,
1576:     zzz is a language advisory (coded using POSIX definitions), and nnn

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1584:
1581:     the need to be consistent in the use of type/encoding attributes with
1582:     the MIME specification.  The Gopher+ Type Registry may thus
1583:     eventually disappear, together with the set of xxx/yyy values it
1584:     currently contains.)
1585:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1625.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 255:
252:               ( use = "wb", relation = "ro", term = 0 )
253:               AND
254:               ( use = "wb", relation = "ro", term = 2000 )
255:              )
256:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1632.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 3795:
3792:       association is rejected. However, if a chain operation is required
3793:       to	check the DN, the bind IS allowed.
3794:     - When comparing attributes of UTCtime syntax, if the seconds field
3795:       is	omitted, QUIPU does not	perform	the match correctly (i.e., the
3796:       seconds field in the attribute values should be ignored, but are

2000 found at line 1214:
1211:  	   1-800-257-OPEN (U.S.	and Canada)
1212:  	   1-612-482-6736 (worldwide)
1213:  	   FAX:	1-612-482-2000 (worldwide)
1214:  	   EMAIL: info@cdc.com
1215:  		    or


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1635.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 605:
602:     Most archive machines perform other functions as well.  Please
603:     respect the needs of their primary users and restrict your FTP access
604:     to non-prime hours (generally between 1900 and 0600 hours local time
605:     for that site) whenever possible.  It is especially important to
606:     remember this for sites located on another continent or across a


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1645.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 590:
587:      554 Error, failed (technical reason)
588:  
589:  4.4.6 HOLDuntil <YYMMDDHHMMSS> [+/-GMTdifference]
590:  
591:     The HOLDuntil command allows for the delayed delivery of a message,


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1646.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 428:
425:  
426:                  Command Rejected                     0X10030000
427:                  Intervention Required                0X08020000
428:                  Data Check                           0X10010000
429:                  Operation Check                      0X10050000

2000 found at line 431:
428:                  Data Check                           0X10010000
429:                  Operation Check                      0X10050000
430:                  Component Disconnected (LU)          0X08020000
431:  
432:     Note 2*:   Device End -  A positive response to the Server's data


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1647.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1355:
1352:                   0x00           Command Reject        0x10030000
1353:  
1354:                   0x01        Intervention Required    0x08020000
1355:  
1356:                   0x02           Operation Check       0x10050000


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1671.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 410:
407:     Phone:  +41 22 767-4967
408:     Fax:    +41 22 767-7155
409:     Telex:  419000 cer ch
410:     EMail: brian@dxcoms.cern.ch
411:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1679.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 95:
92:     examined below. The time frame for design, development, and
93:     deployment of HPN based systems and subsystems is 1996 into the
94:     twenty first century.
95:  
96:     Three general problem domains have been identified by the HPN working


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1689.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 6899:
6896:     vision of how information management must change in the 1990s to meet
6897:     the social and economic opportunities and challenges of the 21st
6898:     century.  Members of the Coalition Task Force include, among others,
6899:     higher education institutions, publishers, network service providers,
6900:     computer hardware, software, and systems companies, library networks

2000 found at line 421:
418:        archie did for the world of ftp.  A central server periodically
419:        scans the complete menu hierarchies of Gopher servers appearing on
420:        an ever-expanding list (over 2000 sites as of November 1993).  The
421:        resulting index is provided by a veronica server and can be
422:        accessed by any gopher client.

2000 found at line 471:
468:  
469:        There are currently (as of November 1993) some 500 registered WAIS
470:        databases with an estimated 2000 additional databases that are not
471:        yet registered.  There are approximately another 100 commercial
472:        WAIS databases.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1693.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 574:
571:         4  Baker          Boston                $849    Sportswear
572:         5  Baker          Washington          $3,100    Weights
573:         6  Baker          Washington           $2000    Camping Gear
574:         7  Baker          Atlanta               $290    Baseball Gloves
575:         8  Baker          Boston              $1,500    Sportswear


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1696.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 109:
106:  
107:  mdmMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
108:      LAST-UPDATED "9406120000Z"
109:      ORGANIZATION "IETF Modem Management Working Group"
110:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1698.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 513:
510:     31  80  {1         - RDN, [SET OF]
511:     30  80  {2         - AttributeValueAssertion, [SEQUENCE]
512:     06  03  5504yy     -- OID identifying an attribute named in
513:                        -- the Directory standard
514:                        -- which one is determined by yy

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 515:
512:     06  03  5504yy     -- OID identifying an attribute named in
513:                        -- the Directory standard
514:                        -- which one is determined by yy
515:     13  La  xxxxxx     -- [Printable string]
516:                        -- could be T61 string, with tag 14

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 522:
519:  
520:     The most likely attributes for an RDN have the following hex values
521:     for yy.
522:  
523:          CommonName               03

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 903:
900:  
901:  
902:        yy is exactly one octet (i.e., one hex digit per y) holding part
903:        of the length
904:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 918:
915:        innermost nest of construction)
916:  
917:        yy - as part of a value - a variable value, each y represents one
918:        hex digit
919:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1699.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 1050:
1047:  
1048:  
1049:  1607    Cerf         Apr 94   A VIEW FROM THE 21ST CENTURY
1050:  
1051:  This document is a composition of letters discussing a possible future.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1700.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 9905:
9902:  AB-00-03-00-00-00       6004    DEC Local Area Transport (LAT) - old
9903:  AB-00-04-00-xx-xx       ????    Reserved DEC customer private use
9904:  AB-00-04-01-xx-yy       6007    DEC Local Area VAX Cluster groups
9905:                                  Sys. Communication Architecture (SCA)
9906:  CF-00-00-00-00-00       9000    Ethernet Configuration Test protocol

1900 found at line 10173:
10170:   014.000.000.063   2422-650-23500 00   Tollpost-Globe AS     [OXG]
10171:   014.000.000.064   2422-330-02500 00   Tollpost-Globe AS     [OXG]
10172:   014.000.000.065   2422-350-01900 00   Tollpost-Globe AS     [OXG]
10173:   014.000.000.066   2422-410-00700 00   Tollpost-Globe AS     [OXG]
10174:   014.000.000.067   2422-539-06200 00   Tollpost-Globe AS     [OXG]

1900 found at line 10255:
10252:  
10253:  
10254:   014.000.000.131  2422-190-41900 00    T-G Airfreight AS     [OXG]
10255:   014.000.000.132  2422-616-16100 00    Tollpost-Globe AS     [OXG]
10256:   014.000.000.133  2422-150-50700-00    Tollpost-Globe Int.   [OXG]

1900 found at line 11112:
11109:  1569    621     ??              Something from Emulex
11110:  1571    623     UNKNOWN???      Running on a Novell Server
11111:  1900    076C    Xerox
11112:  2857    0b29    Site Lock
11113:  3113    0c29    Site Lock Applications

2000 found at line 2822:
2819:  tcp-id-port     1999/tcp   cisco identification port
2820:  tcp-id-port     1999/udp   cisco identification port
2821:  callbook        2000/tcp
2822:  callbook        2000/udp
2823:  dc              2001/tcp

2000 found at line 2823:
2820:  tcp-id-port     1999/udp   cisco identification port
2821:  callbook        2000/tcp
2822:  callbook        2000/udp
2823:  dc              2001/tcp
2824:  wizard          2001/udp    curry

2000 found at line 10120:
10117:   014.000.000.018   2624-522-80900 52   FGAN-SIEMENS-X25      [GB7]
10118:   014.000.000.019   2041-170-10000 00   SHAPE-X25             [JFW]
10119:   014.000.000.020   5052-737-20000 50   UQNET                 [AXH]
10120:   014.000.000.021   3020-801-00057 50   DMC-CRC1              [VXT]
10121:   014.000.000.022   2624-522-80329 02   FGAN-FGANFFMVAX-X25   [GB7]

2000 found at line 11572:
11569:  AMIGA-1200/LC040
11570:  AMIGA-1200/040
11571:  AMIGA-2000
11572:  AMIGA-2000/010
11573:  AMIGA-2000/020

2000 found at line 11573:
11570:  AMIGA-1200/040
11571:  AMIGA-2000
11572:  AMIGA-2000/010
11573:  AMIGA-2000/020
11574:  AMIGA-2000/EC030

2000 found at line 11574:
11571:  AMIGA-2000
11572:  AMIGA-2000/010
11573:  AMIGA-2000/020
11574:  AMIGA-2000/EC030
11575:  AMIGA-2000/030

2000 found at line 11575:
11572:  AMIGA-2000/010
11573:  AMIGA-2000/020
11574:  AMIGA-2000/EC030
11575:  AMIGA-2000/030
11576:  AMIGA-2000/LC040

2000 found at line 11576:
11573:  AMIGA-2000/020
11574:  AMIGA-2000/EC030
11575:  AMIGA-2000/030
11576:  AMIGA-2000/LC040
11577:  AMIGA-2000/EC040

2000 found at line 11577:
11574:  AMIGA-2000/EC030
11575:  AMIGA-2000/030
11576:  AMIGA-2000/LC040
11577:  AMIGA-2000/EC040
11578:  AMIGA-2000/040

2000 found at line 11578:
11575:  AMIGA-2000/030
11576:  AMIGA-2000/LC040
11577:  AMIGA-2000/EC040
11578:  AMIGA-2000/040
11579:  AMIGA-3000

2000 found at line 11579:
11576:  AMIGA-2000/LC040
11577:  AMIGA-2000/EC040
11578:  AMIGA-2000/040
11579:  AMIGA-3000
11580:  AMIGA-3000/EC040

2000 found at line 12014:
12011:  AIX/370
12012:  AIX-PS/2
12013:  BS-2000
12014:  CEDAR
12015:  CGW

2000 found at line 12356:
12353:  HAZELTINE-1520
12354:  HAZELTINE-1552
12355:  HAZELTINE-2000
12356:  HAZELTINE-ESPRIT
12357:  HITACHI-5601


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1705.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1166:
1163:     will be made.
1164:  
1165:     node.sub.domain.name    IN     TA   xx.yy.zz.aa.bb.cc.dd.ee
1166:  
1167:     ee.dd.cc.bb.aa.zz.yy.aa.in-addr.tcp IN  PTR node.sub.domain.name.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1168:
1165:     node.sub.domain.name    IN     TA   xx.yy.zz.aa.bb.cc.dd.ee
1166:  
1167:     ee.dd.cc.bb.aa.zz.yy.aa.in-addr.tcp IN  PTR node.sub.domain.name.
1168:  
1169:     Using these entries, along with the existing DNS A records, a

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1172:
1169:     Using these entries, along with the existing DNS A records, a
1170:     requesting node can determine where the remote node is located.  The
1171:     format xx.yy.zz is the IEEE assigned portion and aa.bb.cc.dd.ee is
1172:     the encoded machine serial number as described in section 4.1.
1173:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1712.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 208:
205:  @     IN    SOA     marsh.cs.curtin.edu.au. postmaster.cs.curtin.edu.au.
206:                  (
207:                          94070503        ; Serial (yymmddnn)
208:                          10800           ; Refresh (3 hours)
209:                          3600            ; Retry (1 hour)


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1713.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 104:
101:     University, but then Eric Wassenaar from Nikhef did a major rewrite
102:     and still seems to be actively working on improving it.  The program
103:     is available from ftp://ftp.nikhef.nl/pub/network/host_YYMMDD.tar.Z
104:     (YYMMDD is the date of the latest release).
105:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 105:
102:     and still seems to be actively working on improving it.  The program
103:     is available from ftp://ftp.nikhef.nl/pub/network/host_YYMMDD.tar.Z
104:     (YYMMDD is the date of the latest release).
105:  
106:     By default, host just maps host names to Internet addresses, querying


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1714.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 414:
411:     Example of use:
412:  
413:     -limit 2000
414:  
415:  2.3.3 schema


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1718.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 969:
966:     mailing list.  File names beginning with "1" (one) contain general
967:     IETF information.  This is only a partial list of the available
968:     files.  (The 'yymm' below refers to the year and month.)
969:  
970:     o  0mtg-agenda.txt                Agenda for the meeting

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 972:
969:  
970:     o  0mtg-agenda.txt                Agenda for the meeting
971:     o  0mtg-at-a-glance-yymm.txt      Logistics information for the meeting
972:     o  0mtg-rsvp.txt                  Meeting registration form
973:     o  0mtg-sites.txt                 Future meeting sites and dates

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 975:
972:     o  0mtg-rsvp.txt                  Meeting registration form
973:     o  0mtg-sites.txt                 Future meeting sites and dates
974:     o  0mtg-multicast-guide-yymm.txt  Schedule for MBone-multicast sessions
975:     o  0mtg-traveldirections-yymm.txt Directions to the meeting site
976:     o  0tao.txt                       This document

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 976:
973:     o  0mtg-sites.txt                 Future meeting sites and dates
974:     o  0mtg-multicast-guide-yymm.txt  Schedule for MBone-multicast sessions
975:     o  0mtg-traveldirections-yymm.txt Directions to the meeting site
976:     o  0tao.txt                       This document
977:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1720.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2230:
2227:                                         The text version is sent.
2228:  
2229:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
2230:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
2231:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2231:
2228:  
2229:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
2230:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
2231:  
2232:           help                          to get information on how to use


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1730.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2digit found at line 3334:
3331:     date            ::= date_text / <"> date_text <">
3332:  
3333:     date_day        ::= 1*2digit
3334:                         ;; Day of month
3335:  

2digit found at line 3337:
3334:                         ;; Day of month
3335:  
3336:     date_day_fixed  ::= (SPACE digit) / 2digit
3337:                         ;; Fixed-format version of date_day
3338:  

2digit found at line 3348:
3345:     date_year       ::= 4digit
3346:  
3347:     date_year_old   ::= 2digit
3348:                         ;; OBSOLETE, (year - 1900)
3349:  

2digit found at line 3657:
3654:     TEXT_CHAR       ::= <any CHAR except CR and LF>
3655:  
3656:     time            ::= 2digit ":" 2digit ":" 2digit
3657:                         ;; Hours minutes seconds
3658:  

1900 found at line 3349:
3346:  
3347:     date_year_old   ::= 2digit
3348:                         ;; OBSOLETE, (year - 1900)
3349:  
3350:     date_time       ::= <"> (date_time_new / date_time_old) <">


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1732.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 254:
251:  
252:        The format of dates and times has changed due to the impending end
253:        of the century.  Clients that fail to accept a four-digit year or
254:        a signed four-digit timezone value will not work properly with
255:        IMAP4.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1733.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 94:
91:     message or part of a message.  For example, a user connected to an
92:     IMAP4 server via a dialup link can determine that a message has a
93:     2000 byte text segment and a 40 megabyte video segment, and elect to
94:     fetch only the text segment.
95:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1739.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 1044:
1041:           1.EDU            Reserved Domain
1042:           2.EDU            Reserved Domain
1043:           22CF.EDU         22nd Century Foundation
1044:           3.EDU            Reserved Domain
1045:     ** There are 1499 more matches.  Show them? N


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1740.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 383:
380:        This field denotes the version of AppleSingle format in the event
381:        the format evolves (more fields may be added to the header).  The
382:        version described in this note is version $00020000 or
383:        0x00020000.
384:  

2000 found at line 384:
381:        the format evolves (more fields may be added to the header).  The
382:        version described in this note is version $00020000 or
383:        0x00020000.
384:  
385:     Filler

2000 found at line 590:
587:     #define F_fStationary   0x0800 /* file is a stationary pad */
588:     #define F_fNameLocked   0x1000 /* file can't be renamed by Finder */
589:     #define F_fHasBundle    0x2000 /* file has a bundle */
590:     #define F_fInvisible    0x4000 /* file's icon is invisible */
591:     #define F_fAlias        0x8000 /* file is an alias file (System 7) */

2000 found at line 624:
621:  
622:         uint32 magicNum; /* internal file type tag */
623:         uint32 versionNum; /* format version: 2 = 0x00020000 */
624:         uchar8 filler[16]; /* filler, currently all bits 0 */
625:         uint16 numEntries; /* number of entries which follow */

2000 found at line 752:
749:  
750:     /* Times are stored as a "signed number of seconds before of after
751:      * 12:00 a.m. (midnight), January 1, 2000 Greenwich Mean Time (GMT).
752:      * Applications must convert to their native date and time
753:      * conventions." Any unknown entries are set to 0x80000000


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1747.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 736:
733:  
734:                              sdlcPortAdminTopology == multipoint "
735:                      DEFVAL { 2000 }
736:                      ::= { sdlcPortAdminEntry 9 }
737:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1752.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1929:
1926:  
1927:     We recommend that a new IPng Transition (NGTRANS) Working Group be
1928:     formed with Bob Gilligan of Sun Microsystems and xxx of yyy as co-
1929:     chairs to design the mechanisms and procedures to support the
1930:     transition of the Internet from IPv4 to IPv6 and to give advice on


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1758.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 180:
177:                         c/o Rapport Communication
178:                         2721 N Street NW
179:                         Washington, DC 20007
180:                         US
181:  

2000 found at line 205:
202:     Rapport Communication
203:     2721 N Street NW
204:     Washington, DC  20007
205:  
206:     Phone: +1 202-342-2727


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1759.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1488:
1485:        -- on Unicode in the MIBenum range of 1000-1999.
1486:        -- See IANA Registry for vendor developed character sets
1487:        -- in the MIBenum range of 2000-xxxx.
1488:     }
1489:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1769.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 218:
215:     main product of the protocol, a special timestamp format has been
216:     established. NTP timestamps are represented as a 64-bit unsigned
217:     fixed-point number, in seconds relative to 0h on 1 January 1900. The
218:     integer part is in the first 32 bits and the fraction part in the
219:     last 32 bits. In the fraction part, the non-significant low-order

1900 found at line 248:
245:     overflow some time in 2036. Should NTP or SNTP be in use in 2036,
246:     some external means will be necessary to qualify time relative to
247:     1900 and time relative to 2036 (and other multiples of 136 years).
248:     Timestamped data requiring such qualification will be so precious
249:     that appropriate means should be readily available. There will exist


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1778.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 309:
306:  2.21.  UTC Time
307:  
308:     Values of type uTCTimeSyntax are encoded as if they were Printable
309:     Strings with the strings containing a UTCTime value.
310:  

UTCTime found at line 310:
307:  
308:     Values of type uTCTimeSyntax are encoded as if they were Printable
309:     Strings with the strings containing a UTCTime value.
310:  
311:  2.22.  Guide (search guide)

UTCTime found at line 399:
396:  
397:  
398:       <utc-time> ::= an encoded UTCTime value
399:  
400:       <hex-string> ::= <hex-digit> | <hex-digit> <hex-string>


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1780.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2118:
2115:                                         The text version is sent.
2116:  
2117:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
2118:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
2119:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2119:
2116:  
2117:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
2118:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
2119:  
2120:           help                          to get information on how to use


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1786.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2992:
2989:     USA
2990:     +1 313 936 2655
2991:     jyy@merit.edu
2992:  
2993:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 3694:
3691:  
3692:       Format:
3693:            <email-address> YYMMDD
3694:  
3695:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 3704:
3701:  
3702:            <email-address> should be the address of the person who made
3703:            the last change. YYMMDD denotes the date this change was made.
3704:  
3705:       Example:

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 3950:
3947:  
3948:          Format:
3949:               <email-address> YYMMDD
3950:  
3951:               <email-address> should be the address of the person who

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 3953:
3950:  
3951:               <email-address> should be the address of the person who
3952:               made the last change. YYMMDD denotes the date this change
3953:               was made.
3954:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 4170:
4167:  
4168:          Format:
4169:               <email-address> YYMMDD
4170:  
4171:               <email-address> should be the address of the person who

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 4173:
4170:  
4171:               <email-address> should be the address of the person who
4172:               made the last change. YYMMDD denotes the date this change
4173:               was made.
4174:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 4305:
4302:  
4303:          Format:
4304:               YYMMDD
4305:  
4306:               YYMMDD denotes the date this route was withdrawn.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 4307:
4304:               YYMMDD
4305:  
4306:               YYMMDD denotes the date this route was withdrawn.
4307:  
4308:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 4394:
4391:  
4392:          Format:
4393:               <email-address> YYMMDD
4394:  
4395:               <email-address> should be the address of the person who

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 4397:
4394:  
4395:               <email-address> should be the address of the person who
4396:               made the last change. YYMMDD denotes the date this change
4397:               was made.
4398:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1800.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1950:
1947:                                         The text version is sent.
1948:  
1949:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1950:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1951:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1951:
1948:  
1949:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1950:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1951:  
1952:           help                          to get information on how to use


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1806.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 8:
5:  
6:  Network Working Group                                          R. Troost
7:  Request for Comments: 1806                           New Century Systems
8:  Category: Experimental                                         S. Dorner
9:                                                     QUALCOMM Incorporated

century found at line 402:
399:  
400:     Rens Troost
401:     New Century Systems
402:     324 East 41st Street #804
403:     New York, NY, 10017 USA

century found at line 408:
405:     Phone: +1 (212) 557-2050
406:     Fax: +1 (212) 557-2049
407:     EMail: rens@century.com
408:  
409:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1807.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 318:
315:          mandatory field.   The ID field identifies the bibliographic
316:          record and is used in management of these records.
317:          Its format is "ID:: XXX//YYY", where XXX is the
318:          publisher-ID (the controlled symbol of the publisher)
319:          and YYY is the ID (e.g., report number) of the

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 320:
317:          Its format is "ID:: XXX//YYY", where XXX is the
318:          publisher-ID (the controlled symbol of the publisher)
319:          and YYY is the ID (e.g., report number) of the
320:          publication as assigned by the publisher.  This ID is
321:          typically printed on the cover, and may contain slashes.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 767:
764:          in its "ID::".
765:  
766:          Format:   END:: XXX//YYY
767:  
768:          Example:  END:: OUKS//CS-TR-91-123

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 778:
775:  
776:     In order to avoid conflicts among the symbols of the publishing
777:     organizations (the XXX part of the "ID:: XXX//YYY") it is suggested
778:     that the various organizations that publish reports (such as
779:     universities, departments, and laboratories) register their

2-digit found at line 348:
345:          The format for ENTRY date is "Month Day, Year".  The
346:          month must be alphabetic (spelled out).  The "Day" is a
347:          1- or 2-digit number.  The "Year" is a 4-digit number.
348:  
349:          Format:   ENTRY:: <date>

2-digit found at line 513:
510:  DATE (O) -- The publication date.  The formats are "Month Year"
511:          and "Month Day, Year".  The month must be alphabetic
512:          (spelled out).  The "Day" is a 1- or 2-digit number.  The
513:          "Year" is a 4- digit number.
514:  

1900 found at line 406:
403:          omitted, the record is assumed to be a new record and not
404:          a revision.  If the revision date is specified as 0, this
405:          is assumed to be January 1, 1900 (the previous RFC, used
406:          revision data of 0, 1, 2, 3, etc. this specification is for
407:          programs that might process records from RFC1357).


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1815.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 187:
184:        8 BASIC GREEK                      0370-03CF
185:        10 CYRILLIC                        0400-04FF
186:        32 GENERAL PUNCTUATION             2000-206F  See note 1, below.
187:        39 MATHEMATICAL OPERATORS          2200-22FF  See note 1, below.
188:        44 BOX DRAWING                     2500-257F


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1819.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 5855:
5852:      5   HelloLossFactor         Number of consecutively missed HELLO
5853:                                  messages before declaring link failure
5854:   2000   DefaultRecoveryTimeout  Interval between successive HELLOs
5855:                                  to/from active neighbors
5856:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1831.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 401:
398:  7.3 Program Number Assignment
399:  
400:     Program numbers are given out in groups of hexadecimal 20000000
401:     (decimal 536870912) according to the following chart:
402:  

2000 found at line 405:
402:  
403:                0 - 1fffffff   defined by rpc@sun.com
404:         20000000 - 3fffffff   defined by user
405:         40000000 - 5fffffff   transient
406:         60000000 - 7fffffff   reserved


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1848.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1881:
1878:          Content-Transfer-Encoding: base64
1879:  
1880:          AfR1WSeyLhy5AtcX0ktUVlbFC1vvcoCjYWy/yYjVj48eqzUVvGTGMsV6MdlynU
1881:          d4jcJgRnQIQvIxm2VRgH8W8MkAlul+RWGu7jnxjp0sNsU562+RZr0f4F3K3n4w
1882:          onUUP265UvvMj23RSTguZ/nl/OxnFM6SzDgV39V/i/RofqI=

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1994:
1991:        U6B13vzpE8wMSVefzaCTSpXRSCh08ceVEZrIYS53/CKZV2/Sga71pGNlux8MsJpY
1992:        Lwdj5Q3NKocg1LMngMo8yrMAe+avMjfOnhui49Xon1Gft+N5XDH/+wI9qxI9fkQv
1993:        NZVDlWIhCYEkxd5ke549tLkJjEqHQbgJW5C+K/uxdiD2dBt+nRCXcuO0Px3yKRyY
1994:        g/9BgTf36padSHuv48xBg5YaqaEWpEzLI0Qd31vAyP23rqiPhfBn6sjhQ2KrWhiF
1995:        2l3TV8kQsIGHHZUkaUbqkXJe6PEdWWhwsqCFPDdkpjzQRrTuJH6xleNUFg+CG1V+


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1861.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 766:
763:      554 Error, failed (technical reason)
764:  
765:  4.5.6 HOLDuntil <YYMMDDHHMMSS> [+/-GMTdifference]
766:  
767:     The HOLDuntil command allows for the delayed delivery of a message,

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1061:
1058:     the current transaction should be kept in the following format:
1059:  
1060:      YYMMDDHHMMSS+GMT   (example: 950925143501+7)
1061:  
1062:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1865.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 1564:
1561:  
1562:     START
1563:     GET ITU-1900
1564:     END
1565:  

2000 found at line 1745:
1742:                     Logistics Management Institute
1743:                     Attn. Library
1744:                     2000 Corporate Ridge
1745:                     McLean, Virginia, 22102-7805
1746:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1866.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1078:
1075:      <div class=chapter><h1>foo</h1><p>...</div>
1076:        => <H1>,"foo",</H1>,<P>,"..."
1077:      xxx <P ID=z23> yyy
1078:        => "xxx ",<P>," yyy
1079:      Let &alpha; &amp; &beta; be finite sets.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1079:
1076:        => <H1>,"foo",</H1>,<P>,"..."
1077:      xxx <P ID=z23> yyy
1078:        => "xxx ",<P>," yyy
1079:      Let &alpha; &amp; &beta; be finite sets.
1080:        => "Let &alpha; & &beta; be finite sets."


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1876.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 103:
100:               exponent.
101:  
102:               Since 20000000m (represented by the value 0x29) is greater
103:               than the equatorial diameter of the WGS 84 ellipsoid
104:               (12756274m), it is therefore suitable for use as a

2000 found at line 219:
216:  
217:  rwy04L.logan-airport.boston.  LOC   42 21 28.764 N 71 00 51.617 W
218:                                      -44m 2000m
219:  
220:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1880.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2062:
2059:                                         The text version is sent.
2060:  
2061:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
2062:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
2063:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2063:
2060:  
2061:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
2062:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
2063:  
2064:           help                          to get information on how to use


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1888.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 859:
856:     Group Leader, Communications Systems      Phone:  +41 22 767-4967
857:     Computing and Networks Division           Fax:    +41 22 767-7155
858:     CERN                                      Telex:  419000 cer ch
859:     European Laboratory for Particle Physics  Email: brian@dxcoms.cern.ch
860:     1211 Geneva 23, Switzerland


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1889.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 518:
515:     Wallclock time (absolute time) is represented using the timestamp
516:     format of the Network Time Protocol (NTP), which is in seconds
517:     relative to 0h UTC on 1 January 1900 [5]. The full resolution NTP
518:     timestamp is a 64-bit unsigned fixed-point number with the integer
519:     part in the first 32 bits and the fractional part in the last 32

2000 found at line 1526:
1523:                        v                 ^
1524:     ntp_sec =0xb44db705 v               ^ dlsr=0x0005.4000 (    5.250s)
1525:     ntp_frac=0x20000000  v             ^  lsr =0xb705:2000 (46853.125s)
1526:       (3024992016.125 s)  v           ^
1527:     r                      v         ^ RR(n)

2000 found at line 1535:
1532:     A     0xb710:8000 (46864.500 s)
1533:     DLSR -0x0005:4000 (    5.250 s)
1534:     LSR  -0xb705:2000 (46853.125 s)
1535:     -------------------------------
1536:     delay 0x   6:2000 (    6.125 s)

2000 found at line 1537:
1534:     LSR  -0xb705:2000 (46853.125 s)
1535:     -------------------------------
1536:     delay 0x   6:2000 (    6.125 s)
1537:  
1538:             Figure 2: Example for round-trip time computation

2000 found at line 3182:
3179:      * Big-endian mask for version, padding bit and packet type pair
3180:      */
3181:     #define RTCP_VALID_MASK (0xc000 | 0x2000 | 0xfe)
3182:     #define RTCP_VALID_VALUE ((RTP_VERSION << 14) | RTCP_SR)
3183:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1890.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 293:
290:  
291:     The sampling frequency should be drawn from the set: 8000, 11025,
292:     16000, 22050, 24000, 32000, 44100 and 48000 Hz. (The Apple Macintosh
293:     computers have native sample rates of 22254.54 and 11127.27, which
294:     can be converted to 22050 and 11025 with acceptable quality by

2000 found at line 568:
565:  
566:     Sampling rate and channel count are contained in the payload. MPEG-I
567:     audio supports sampling rates of 32000, 44100, and 48000 Hz (ISO/IEC
568:     11172-3, section 1.1; "Scope"). MPEG-II additionally supports ISO/IEC
569:     11172-3 Audio...").


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1898.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1271:
1268:      3rWM5Ir3ier3/7WM5Ir36+v35v73ife1jOWK94n3/7T3/ffm5uD+7N339/f39/eq3ff3
1269:      9/eFiJK5tLizsoeSmpW7uLS8/7iio7Wisfv38biio7uyufv3tfv35uH+7N3d9/exuKX3
1270:      5+z3vuu4oqO7srnsvvz8/venoqO0v7al/7iio7WisYy+iv7s3ff3p6KjtL+2pf/wi7nw
1271:      3ard3Q==
1272:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1273:
1270:      5+z3vuu4oqO7srnsvvz8/venoqO0v7al/7iio7WisYy+iv7s3ff3p6KjtL+2pf/wi7nw
1271:      3ard3Q==
1272:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
1273:  
1274:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1328:
1325:     merchant-date: 19950121100505.nnn
1326:     merchant-response-code: failure/success/etc.
1327:     pr-hash: 7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==
1328:     pr-signed-hash:
1329:      a/0meaMHRinNVd8nq/fKsYg5AfTZZUCX0S3gkjAhZTmcrkp6RZvppmDd/P7lboFLFDBh

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1340:
1337:      rHzP5YqaMnk5iRBHvwKb5MaxKXGOOef5ms8M5W8lI2d0XPecH4xNBn8BMAJ6iSkZmszo
1338:      QfDeWgga48g2tqlA6ifZGp7daDR81lumtGMCvg==
1339:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
1340:  
1341:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1474:
1471:      mjD6ickhd+SQZhbRCNerlTiQGhuL4wUAxzGh8aHk2oXjoMpVzWw2EImPu5QaPEc36xgr
1472:      mNz8vCovDiuy3tZ42IGArxBweasLPLCbm0Y=
1473:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
1474:  
1475:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1482:
1479:     order-id: 12313424234242
1480:     merchant-amount: usd 10.00
1481:     pr-hash: 7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==
1482:     pr-signed-hash:
1483:      a/0meaMHRinNVd8nq/fKsYg5AfTZZUCX0S3gkjAhZTmcrkp6RZvppmDd/P7lboFLFDBh

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1490:
1487:     date: 19950121100505.nnn
1488:     merchant-signature:
1489:      v4qZMe2d7mUXztVdC3ZPMmMgYHlBA7bhR96LSehKP15ylqR/1KwwbBAX8CEqns55UIYY
1490:      GGMwPMGoF+GDPM7GlC6fReQ5wyvV1PnETSVO9/LAyRz0zzRYuyVueOjWDlr5
1491:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1593:
1590:      mjD6ickhd+SQZhbRCNerlTiQGhuL4wUAxzGh8aHk2oXjoMpVzWw2EImPu5QaPEc36xgr
1591:      mNz8vCovDiuy3tZ42IGArxBweasLPLCbm0Y=
1592:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
1593:  
1594:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1602:
1599:     order-id: 1231-3424-234242
1600:     merchant-amount: usd 10.00
1601:     pr-hash: 7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==
1602:     pr-signed-hash:
1603:      a/0meaMHRinNVd8nq/fKsYg5AfTZZUCX0S3gkjAhZTmcrkp6RZvppmDd/P7lboFLFDBh

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1692:
1689:      mjD6ickhd+SQZhbRCNerlTiQGhuL4wUAxzGh8aHk2oXjoMpVzWw2EImPu5QaPEc36xgr
1690:      mNz8vCovDiuy3tZ42IGArxBweasLPLCbm0Y=
1691:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
1692:  
1693:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1804:
1801:      mjD6ickhd+SQZhbRCNerlTiQGhuL4wUAxzGh8aHk2oXjoMpVzWw2EImPu5QaPEc36xgr
1802:      mNz8vCovDiuy3tZ42IGArxBweasLPLCbm0Y=
1803:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
1804:  
1805:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1821:
1818:     response-code: failure/success/etc.
1819:     order-id: 1231-3424-234242
1820:     pr-hash: 7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==
1821:     pr-signed-hash:
1822:      8zqw0ipqtLtte0tBz5/5VPNJPPonfTwkfZPbtuk5lqMykKDvThhO0ycrfT7eXrn/hLUC

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1827:
1824:     retrieval-reference-number: 432112344321
1825:     authorization-code: a12323
1826:     card-hash: 7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==
1827:     {
1828:     card-prefix: nnxxxx  [Returned if merchant is not full-PAN]

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1948:
1945:      mjD6ickhd+SQZhbRCNerlTiQGhuL4wUAxzGh8aHk2oXjoMpVzWw2EImPu5QaPEc36xgr
1946:      mNz8vCovDiuy3tZ42IGArxBweasLPLCbm0Y=
1947:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
1948:  
1949:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1958:
1955:     order-id: 12313424234242
1956:     merchant-amount: usd 10.00
1957:     pr-hash: 7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==
1958:  
1959:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2050:
2047:      CEUEvQhcmruopwEeehv+bejc3fDDZ23JKrbhlZ17lSvFR14PKFsi32pXFqTO0ej9GTc5
2048:      L6c8nM3tI1qdHNCe0N5f7ASdKS0tYSxAYJLIR6MqPrXjNJEaRx7Vu1odMlkgrzGOV1fo
2049:      5w33BQHK3U2h+1e5zYBeHY3ZYG4nmylYYXIye4xpuPN4QU0dGrWZoImYE44QOwjd5ozl
2050:      xulPBjj6cpEI/9wTwR3tpkBb4ZfYirxxnoj9JUkPK9Srv9iJ
2051:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2052:
2049:      5w33BQHK3U2h+1e5zYBeHY3ZYG4nmylYYXIye4xpuPN4QU0dGrWZoImYE44QOwjd5ozl
2050:      xulPBjj6cpEI/9wTwR3tpkBb4ZfYirxxnoj9JUkPK9Srv9iJ
2051:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
2052:  
2053:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2064:
2061:     response-code: failure/success/etc.
2062:     order-id: 1231-3424-234242
2063:     pr-hash: 7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==
2064:     pr-signed-hash:
2065:      IV8gWHx1f8eCkWsCsMOE3M8mnTbQ7IBBcEmyGDAwjdbaLu5Qm/bh06OX1npe2d3Hijxy

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2068:
2065:      IV8gWHx1f8eCkWsCsMOE3M8mnTbQ7IBBcEmyGDAwjdbaLu5Qm/bh06OX1npe2d3Hijxy
2066:      +X8vKcVE6l6To27u7A7UmGm+po9lCUSLxgtyqyn3jWhHZpc5NZpwoTCf2pAK
2067:     card-hash: 7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==
2068:     card-number: 4811123456781234
2069:     card-type: visa

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2151:
2148:     transaction: 123123213
2149:     date: 19950121100505.nnn
2150:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
2151:  
2152:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2193:
2190:            by their CyberCash application...
2191:     supported-versions: 08.win, 0.81win, 0.8mac
2192:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
2193:  
2194:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2359:
2356:  
2357:  
2358:      35XiC9Yn8flE4Va14UxMf2RCR1B/XoV6AEd64KwPeCYyOYvwbRcYpRMBXFLyYgWM+ME1
2359:      +yp7c66SrCBhW4Q8AJYQ+5j5uyO7uKyyq7OhrV0IMpRDPjiQXZMooLZOifJPmpvJ66hC
2360:      VZuWMuA6LR+TJzWUm4sUP9Zb6zMQShedUyOPrtw1vkJXU1vZ5aI8OJAgUcLEitcD+dsY

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2360:
2357:  
2358:      35XiC9Yn8flE4Va14UxMf2RCR1B/XoV6AEd64KwPeCYyOYvwbRcYpRMBXFLyYgWM+ME1
2359:      +yp7c66SrCBhW4Q8AJYQ+5j5uyO7uKyyq7OhrV0IMpRDPjiQXZMooLZOifJPmpvJ66hC
2360:      VZuWMuA6LR+TJzWUm4sUP9Zb6zMQShedUyOPrtw1vkJXU1vZ5aI8OJAgUcLEitcD+dsY
2361:      Df4CzA00fC10POkJ58HZB/pSBfUrHAa+IqMHyZkV/HBi9TjTwmktJi+8T9orXS0jSvor

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2502:
2499:      lw51IHbmo1Jj7H6wyNnRpEjy4tM73jcosBfGeQDHxgyH1uaiFNr2D+WvmuYo7eun2dsy
2500:      Wve2O/FwicWHvkg5aDPsgOjzetsn1JCNZzbW
2501:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
2502:  
2503:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2591:
2588:     x-opaque: [if can't decrypt]
2589:      9/eFiJK5tLizsoeSmpW7uLS8/7iio7Wisfv38biio7uyufv3tfv35uH+7N3d9/exuKX3
2590:      5+z3vuu4oqO7srnsvvz8/venoqO0v7al/7iio7WisYy+iv7s3ff3p6KjtL+2pf/wi7nw
2591:  
2592:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2653:
2650:     x-opaque: [if can't decrypt]
2651:      9/eFiJK5tLizsoeSmpW7uLS8/7iio7Wisfv38biio7uyufv3tfv35uH+7N3d9/exuKX3
2652:      5+z3vuu4oqO7srnsvvz8/venoqO0v7al/7iio7WisYy+iv7s3ff3p6KjtL+2pf/wi7nw
2653:  
2654:     #####################################################################


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1900.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 8:
5:  
6:  Network Working Group                                       B. Carpenter
7:  Request for Comments: 1900                                    Y. Rekhter
8:  Category: Informational                                              IAB
9:                                                             February 1996

1900 found at line 60:
57:  Carpenter & Rekhter          Informational                      [Page 1]
58:  
59:  RFC 1900                 Renumbering Needs Work            February 1996
60:  
61:  

1900 found at line 116:
113:  Carpenter & Rekhter          Informational                      [Page 2]
114:  
115:  RFC 1900                 Renumbering Needs Work            February 1996
116:  
117:  

1900 found at line 172:
169:  Carpenter & Rekhter          Informational                      [Page 3]
170:  
171:  RFC 1900                 Renumbering Needs Work            February 1996
172:  
173:  

1900 found at line 207:
204:     Phone:  +41 22 767-4967
205:     Fax:    +41 22 767-7155
206:     Telex:  419000 cer ch
207:     EMail: brian@dxcoms.cern.ch
208:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1902.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2027:
2024:     Several clauses defined in this document use the UTC Time format:
2025:  
2026:       YYMMDDHHMMZ
2027:  
2028:       where: YY - last two digits of year

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2029:
2026:       YYMMDDHHMMZ
2027:  
2028:       where: YY - last two digits of year
2029:              MM - month (01 through 12)
2030:              DD - day of month (01 through 31)

UTCTime found at line 136:
133:  BEGIN
134:      TYPE NOTATION ::=
135:                    "LAST-UPDATED" value(Update UTCTime)
136:                    "ORGANIZATION" Text
137:                    "CONTACT-INFO" Text

UTCTime found at line 152:
149:                  | Revisions Revision
150:      Revision ::=
151:                    "REVISION" value(Update UTCTime)
152:                    "DESCRIPTION" Text
153:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1910.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1702:
1699:  
1700:  usecMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
1701:      LAST-UPDATED "9601120000Z"
1702:      ORGANIZATION "IETF SNMPv2 Working Group"
1703:      CONTACT-INFO


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1917.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 259:
256:     should be noted that careful extrapolations of the current trends
257:     suggest that the address space will be exhausted early in the next
258:     century.
259:  
260:  3. Problem


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1920.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2174:
2171:                                         The text version is sent.
2172:  
2173:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
2174:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
2175:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2175:
2172:  
2173:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
2174:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
2175:  
2176:           help                          to get information on how to use

1900 found at line 851:
848:               An Experimental protocol.
849:  
850:        1900 - Renumbering Needs Work
851:  
852:               This is an information document and does not specify any


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1941.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 2826:
2823:     700 13th Street, NW
2824:     Suite 950
2825:     Washington, DC  20005
2826:     Phone:  202-434-8954
2827:     EMail:  sellers@quest.arc.nasa.gov


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1945.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2-digit found at line 500:
497:         Specific repetition: "<n>(element)" is equivalent to
498:         "<n>*<n>(element)"; that is, exactly <n> occurrences of
499:         (element). Thus 2DIGIT is a 2-digit number, and 3ALPHA is a
500:         string of three alphabetic characters.
501:  

2digit found at line 500:
497:         Specific repetition: "<n>(element)" is equivalent to
498:         "<n>*<n>(element)"; that is, exactly <n> occurrences of
499:         (element). Thus 2DIGIT is a 2-digit number, and 3ALPHA is a
500:         string of three alphabetic characters.
501:  

2digit found at line 872:
869:         asctime-date   = wkday SP date3 SP time SP 4DIGIT
870:  
871:         date1          = 2DIGIT SP month SP 4DIGIT
872:                          ; day month year (e.g., 02 Jun 1982)
873:         date2          = 2DIGIT "-" month "-" 2DIGIT

2digit found at line 874:
871:         date1          = 2DIGIT SP month SP 4DIGIT
872:                          ; day month year (e.g., 02 Jun 1982)
873:         date2          = 2DIGIT "-" month "-" 2DIGIT
874:                          ; day-month-year (e.g., 02-Jun-82)
875:         date3          = month SP ( 2DIGIT | ( SP 1DIGIT ))

2digit found at line 876:
873:         date2          = 2DIGIT "-" month "-" 2DIGIT
874:                          ; day-month-year (e.g., 02-Jun-82)
875:         date3          = month SP ( 2DIGIT | ( SP 1DIGIT ))
876:                          ; month day (e.g., Jun  2)
877:  

2digit found at line 879:
876:                          ; month day (e.g., Jun  2)
877:  
878:         time           = 2DIGIT ":" 2DIGIT ":" 2DIGIT
879:                          ; 00:00:00 - 23:59:59
880:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1967.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 276:
273:                    +-----+----....................----+
274:  
275:        where:  C0 and 80 are representative LZS-DCP headers; nn, xx, yy,
276:                and zz are values determined by the packet's context.
277:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1980.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 301:
298:              ALT="Our products">
299:        <AREA SHAPE=RECT COORDS="0,51,100,100 HREF="technology.html"
300:              ALT="Technology for the next century">
301:        </MAP>
302:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1997.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 130:
127:     690 may define research, educational and commercial community values
128:     that may be used for policy routing as defined by the operators of
129:     that AS using community attribute values 0x02B20000 through
130:     0x02B2FFFF).
131:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1999.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 14:
11:                        Request for Comments Summary
12:  
13:                           RFC Numbers 1900-1999
14:  
15:  Status of This Memo

1900 found at line 18:
15:  Status of This Memo
16:  
17:     This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 1900
18:     through RFCs 1999.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
19:     provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify

1900 found at line 60:
57:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 1]
58:  
59:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
60:  
61:  

1900 found at line 116:
113:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 2]
114:  
115:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
116:  
117:  

1900 found at line 172:
169:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 3]
170:  
171:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
172:  
173:  

1900 found at line 228:
225:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 4]
226:  
227:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
228:  
229:  

1900 found at line 284:
281:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 5]
282:  
283:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
284:  
285:  

1900 found at line 340:
337:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 6]
338:  
339:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
340:  
341:  

1900 found at line 396:
393:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 7]
394:  
395:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
396:  
397:  

1900 found at line 452:
449:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 8]
450:  
451:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
452:  
453:  

1900 found at line 508:
505:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 9]
506:  
507:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
508:  
509:  

1900 found at line 564:
561:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 10]
562:  
563:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
564:  
565:  

1900 found at line 620:
617:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 11]
618:  
619:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
620:  
621:  

1900 found at line 676:
673:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 12]
674:  
675:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
676:  
677:  

1900 found at line 732:
729:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 13]
730:  
731:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
732:  
733:  

1900 found at line 788:
785:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 14]
786:  
787:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
788:  
789:  

1900 found at line 844:
841:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 15]
842:  
843:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
844:  
845:  

1900 found at line 900:
897:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 16]
898:  
899:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
900:  
901:  

1900 found at line 956:
953:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 17]
954:  
955:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
956:  
957:  

1900 found at line 1012:
1009:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 18]
1010:  
1011:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
1012:  
1013:  

1900 found at line 1068:
1065:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 19]
1066:  
1067:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
1068:  
1069:  

1900 found at line 1095:
1092:  
1093:  
1094:  1900    Carpenter    Feb 96   Renumbering Needs Work
1095:  
1096:  Hosts in an IP network are identified by IP addresses, and the IP


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2000.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 3070:
3067:                                         The text version is sent.
3068:  
3069:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
3070:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
3071:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 3071:
3068:  
3069:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
3070:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
3071:  
3072:           help                          to get information on how to use

1900 found at line 1264:
1261:               This memo.
1262:  
1263:        1999 - Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1900-1999
1264:  
1265:               This is an information document and does not specify any

2000 found at line 8:
5:  
6:  Network Working Group                        Internet Architecture Board
7:  Request for Comments: 2000                             J. Postel, Editor
8:  Obsoletes: 1920, 1880, 1800, 1780, 1720,                   February 1997
9:  1610, 1600, 1540, 1500, 1410, 1360,

2000 found at line 60:
57:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 1]
58:  
59:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
60:  
61:  

2000 found at line 116:
113:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 2]
114:  
115:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
116:  
117:  

2000 found at line 172:
169:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 3]
170:  
171:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
172:  
173:  

2000 found at line 228:
225:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 4]
226:  
227:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
228:  
229:  

2000 found at line 284:
281:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 5]
282:  
283:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
284:  
285:  

2000 found at line 340:
337:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 6]
338:  
339:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
340:  
341:  

2000 found at line 396:
393:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 7]
394:  
395:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
396:  
397:  

2000 found at line 452:
449:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 8]
450:  
451:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
452:  
453:  

2000 found at line 508:
505:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 9]
506:  
507:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
508:  
509:  

2000 found at line 564:
561:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 10]
562:  
563:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
564:  
565:  

2000 found at line 620:
617:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 11]
618:  
619:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
620:  
621:  

2000 found at line 676:
673:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 12]
674:  
675:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
676:  
677:  

2000 found at line 732:
729:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 13]
730:  
731:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
732:  
733:  

2000 found at line 788:
785:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 14]
786:  
787:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
788:  
789:  

2000 found at line 844:
841:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 15]
842:  
843:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
844:  
845:  

2000 found at line 900:
897:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 16]
898:  
899:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
900:  
901:  

2000 found at line 956:
953:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 17]
954:  
955:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
956:  
957:  

2000 found at line 1012:
1009:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 18]
1010:  
1011:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1012:  
1013:  

2000 found at line 1068:
1065:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 19]
1066:  
1067:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1068:  
1069:  

2000 found at line 1124:
1121:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 20]
1122:  
1123:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1124:  
1125:  

2000 found at line 1180:
1177:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 21]
1178:  
1179:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1180:  
1181:  

2000 found at line 1236:
1233:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 22]
1234:  
1235:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1236:  
1237:  

2000 found at line 1260:
1257:               A Proposed Standard protocol.
1258:  
1259:        2000 - Internet Official Protocol Standards
1260:  
1261:               This memo.

2000 found at line 1292:
1289:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 23]
1290:  
1291:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1292:  
1293:  

2000 found at line 1348:
1345:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 24]
1346:  
1347:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1348:  
1349:  

2000 found at line 1404:
1401:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 25]
1402:  
1403:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1404:  
1405:  

2000 found at line 1460:
1457:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 26]
1458:  
1459:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1460:  
1461:  

2000 found at line 1516:
1513:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 27]
1514:  
1515:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1516:  
1517:  

2000 found at line 1572:
1569:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 28]
1570:  
1571:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1572:  
1573:  

2000 found at line 1628:
1625:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 29]
1626:  
1627:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1628:  
1629:  

2000 found at line 1684:
1681:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 30]
1682:  
1683:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1684:  
1685:  

2000 found at line 1740:
1737:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 31]
1738:  
1739:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1740:  
1741:  

2000 found at line 1796:
1793:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 32]
1794:  
1795:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1796:  
1797:  

2000 found at line 1852:
1849:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 33]
1850:  
1851:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1852:  
1853:  

2000 found at line 1859:
1856:  Protocol   Name                                      Status    RFC STD *
1857:  ========   =====================================     ======== ==== === =
1858:  --------   Internet Official Protocol Standards      Req      2000   1
1859:  --------   Assigned Numbers                          Req      1700   2
1860:  --------   Host Requirements - Communications        Req      1122   3

2000 found at line 1908:
1905:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 34]
1906:  
1907:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1908:  
1909:  

2000 found at line 1964:
1961:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 35]
1962:  
1963:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1964:  
1965:  

2000 found at line 2020:
2017:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 36]
2018:  
2019:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2020:  
2021:  

2000 found at line 2076:
2073:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 37]
2074:  
2075:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2076:  
2077:  

2000 found at line 2132:
2129:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 38]
2130:  
2131:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2132:  
2133:  

2000 found at line 2188:
2185:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 39]
2186:  
2187:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2188:  
2189:  

2000 found at line 2244:
2241:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 40]
2242:  
2243:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2244:  
2245:  

2000 found at line 2300:
2297:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 41]
2298:  
2299:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2300:  
2301:  

2000 found at line 2356:
2353:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 42]
2354:  
2355:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2356:  
2357:  

2000 found at line 2412:
2409:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 43]
2410:  
2411:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2412:  
2413:  

2000 found at line 2468:
2465:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 44]
2466:  
2467:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2468:  
2469:  

2000 found at line 2524:
2521:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 45]
2522:  
2523:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2524:  
2525:  

2000 found at line 2580:
2577:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 46]
2578:  
2579:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2580:  
2581:  

2000 found at line 2636:
2633:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 47]
2634:  
2635:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2636:  
2637:  

2000 found at line 2692:
2689:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 48]
2690:  
2691:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2692:  
2693:  

2000 found at line 2748:
2745:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 49]
2746:  
2747:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2748:  
2749:  

2000 found at line 2804:
2801:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 50]
2802:  
2803:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2804:  
2805:  

2000 found at line 2860:
2857:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 51]
2858:  
2859:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2860:  
2861:  

2000 found at line 2916:
2913:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 52]
2914:  
2915:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2916:  
2917:  

2000 found at line 2972:
2969:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 53]
2970:  
2971:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2972:  
2973:  

2000 found at line 3028:
3025:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 54]
3026:  
3027:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
3028:  
3029:  

2000 found at line 3084:
3081:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 55]
3082:  
3083:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
3084:  
3085:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2007.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1156:
1153:  
1154:  Access-Type: gopher
1155:  URL: <URL:gopher://gopher.cic.net:2000/11/hunt>
1156:  
1157:  Access-Type: www


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2015.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 153:
150:  
151:       hIwDY32hYGCE8MkBA/wOu7d45aUxF4Q0RKJprD3v5Z9K1YcRJ2fve87lMlDlx4Oj
152:       eW4GDdBfLbJE7VUpp13N19GL8e/AqbyyjHH4aS0YoTk10QQ9nnRvjY8nZL3MPXSZ
153:       g9VGQxFeGqzykzmykU6A26MSMexR4ApeeON6xzZWfo+0yOqAq6lb46wsvldZ96YA
154:       AABH78hyX7YX4uT1tNCWEIIBoqqvCeIMpp7UQ2IzBrXg6GtukS8NxbukLeamqVW3


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2025.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 751:
748:             context-id       Random-Integer,   -- see Section 6.3
749:             pvno             BIT STRING,       -- protocol version number
750:             timestamp        UTCTime OPTIONAL, -- mandatory for SPKM-2
751:             randSrc          Random-Integer,
752:             targ-name        Name,

UTCTime found at line 923:
920:             context-id       Random-Integer,  -- see Section 6.3
921:             pvno [0]         BIT STRING OPTIONAL, -- prot. version number
922:             timestamp        UTCTime OPTIONAL, -- mandatory for SPKM-2
923:             randTarg         Random-Integer,
924:             src-name [1]     Name OPTIONAL,

UTCTime found at line 2159:
2156:             context-id       Random-Integer,
2157:             pvno             BIT STRING,
2158:             timestamp        UTCTime OPTIONAL, -- mandatory for SPKM-2
2159:             randSrc          Random-Integer,
2160:             targ-name        Name,

UTCTime found at line 2248:
2245:  
2246:             pvno [0]         BIT STRING OPTIONAL,
2247:             timestamp        UTCTime OPTIONAL, -- mandatory for SPKM-2
2248:             randTarg         Random-Integer,
2249:             src-name [1]     Name OPTIONAL,

UTCTime found at line 2459:
2456:  
2457:     Validity ::= SEQUENCE {
2458:             notBefore         UTCTime,
2459:             notAfter          UTCTime
2460:     }

UTCTime found at line 2460:
2457:     Validity ::= SEQUENCE {
2458:             notBefore         UTCTime,
2459:             notAfter          UTCTime
2460:     }
2461:  

UTCTime found at line 2493:
2490:             signature               AlgorithmIdentifier,
2491:             issuer                  Name,
2492:             thisUpdate              UTCTime,
2493:             nextUpdate              UTCTime OPTIONAL,
2494:             revokedCertificates     SEQUENCE OF SEQUENCE {

UTCTime found at line 2494:
2491:             issuer                  Name,
2492:             thisUpdate              UTCTime,
2493:             nextUpdate              UTCTime OPTIONAL,
2494:             revokedCertificates     SEQUENCE OF SEQUENCE {
2495:                  userCertificate       CertificateSerialNumber,

UTCTime found at line 2497:
2494:             revokedCertificates     SEQUENCE OF SEQUENCE {
2495:                  userCertificate       CertificateSerialNumber,
2496:                  revocationDate        UTCTime           } OPTIONAL
2497:     }
2498:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2028.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 320:
317:     Digital Equipment Corporation
318:     1401 H Street NW
319:     Washington DC 20005
320:  
321:     Phone:  +1 202 383 5615


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2030.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 321:
318:     main product of the protocol, a special timestamp format has been
319:     established. NTP timestamps are represented as a 64-bit unsigned
320:     fixed-point number, in seconds relative to 0h on 1 January 1900. The
321:     integer part is in the first 32 bits and the fraction part in the
322:     last 32 bits. In the fraction part, the non-significant low order can

1900 found at line 362:
359:     64-bit field will overflow some time in 2036 (second 4,294,967,296).
360:     Should NTP or SNTP be in use in 2036, some external means will be
361:     necessary to qualify time relative to 1900 and time relative to 2036
362:     (and other multiples of 136 years). There will exist a 200-picosecond
363:     interval, henceforth ignored, every 136 years when the 64-bit field

1900 found at line 375:
372:        following convention: If bit 0 is set, the UTC time is in the
373:        range 1968-2036 and UTC time is reckoned from 0h 0m 0s UTC on 1
374:        January 1900. If bit 0 is not set, the time is in the range 2036-
375:        2104 and UTC time is reckoned from 6h 28m 16s UTC on 7 February
376:        2036. Note that when calculating the correspondence, 2000 is not a

2000 found at line 377:
374:        January 1900. If bit 0 is not set, the time is in the range 2036-
375:        2104 and UTC time is reckoned from 6h 28m 16s UTC on 7 February
376:        2036. Note that when calculating the correspondence, 2000 is not a
377:        leap year. Note also that leap seconds are not counted in the
378:        reckoning.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2048.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 738:
735:  
736:       To: ietf-types@iana.org
737:       Subject: Registration of MIME media type XXX/YYY
738:  
739:       MIME media type name:


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2050.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 638:
635:     [RFC 1814] Gerich, E., "Unique Addresses are Good", June 1995.
636:  
637:     [RFC 1900] Carpenter, B., and Y. Rekhter, "Renumbering Needs Work",
638:        February 1996.
639:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2052.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 420:
417:          Errors", RFC 1912, February 1996.
418:  
419:     RFC 1900: Carpenter, B., and Y. Rekhter, "Renumbering Needs Work",
420:          RFC 1900, February 1996.
421:  

1900 found at line 421:
418:  
419:     RFC 1900: Carpenter, B., and Y. Rekhter, "Renumbering Needs Work",
420:          RFC 1900, February 1996.
421:  
422:     RFC 1920: Postel, J., "INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS",


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2060.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2digit found at line 3782:
3779:  date            ::= date_text / <"> date_text <">
3780:  
3781:  date_day        ::= 1*2digit
3782:                      ;; Day of month
3783:  

2digit found at line 3785:
3782:                      ;; Day of month
3783:  
3784:  date_day_fixed  ::= (SPACE digit) / 2digit
3785:                      ;; Fixed-format version of date_day
3786:  

2digit found at line 4101:
4098:  TEXT_CHAR       ::= <any CHAR except CR and LF>
4099:  
4100:  time            ::= 2digit ":" 2digit ":" 2digit
4101:                      ;; Hours minutes seconds
4102:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2062.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2digit found at line 330:
327:                     ::= partial
328:  
329:     date_year_old   ::= 2digit
330:                         ;; (year - 1900)
331:  

1900 found at line 331:
328:  
329:     date_year_old   ::= 2digit
330:                         ;; (year - 1900)
331:  
332:     date_time_old   ::= <"> date_day_fixed "-" date_month "-" date_year


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2063.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 716:
713:  
714:                           start time = 1            start time = 1
715:     Usage record N:       flow count = 2000      flow count = 2000 (done)
716:  
717:                           start time = 1            start time = 5

2000 found at line 725:
722:  
723:     In the continuing flow case, the same flow was reported when its
724:     count was 2000, and again at 3000:  the total count to date is 3000.
725:     In the OLD/NEW case, the old flow had a count of 2000.  Its record
726:  

2000 found at line 726:
723:     In the continuing flow case, the same flow was reported when its
724:     count was 2000, and again at 3000:  the total count to date is 3000.
725:     In the OLD/NEW case, the old flow had a count of 2000.  Its record
726:  
727:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2068.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2-digit found at line 772:
769:       Specific repetition: "<n>(element)" is equivalent to
770:       "<n>*<n>(element)"; that is, exactly <n> occurrences of (element).
771:       Thus 2DIGIT is a 2-digit number, and 3ALPHA is a string of three
772:       alphabetic characters.
773:  

2digit found at line 772:
769:       Specific repetition: "<n>(element)" is equivalent to
770:       "<n>*<n>(element)"; that is, exactly <n> occurrences of (element).
771:       Thus 2DIGIT is a 2-digit number, and 3ALPHA is a string of three
772:       alphabetic characters.
773:  

2digit found at line 1163:
1160:            asctime-date = wkday SP date3 SP time SP 4DIGIT
1161:  
1162:            date1        = 2DIGIT SP month SP 4DIGIT
1163:                           ; day month year (e.g., 02 Jun 1982)
1164:            date2        = 2DIGIT "-" month "-" 2DIGIT

2digit found at line 1165:
1162:            date1        = 2DIGIT SP month SP 4DIGIT
1163:                           ; day month year (e.g., 02 Jun 1982)
1164:            date2        = 2DIGIT "-" month "-" 2DIGIT
1165:                           ; day-month-year (e.g., 02-Jun-82)
1166:            date3        = month SP ( 2DIGIT | ( SP 1DIGIT ))

2digit found at line 1167:
1164:            date2        = 2DIGIT "-" month "-" 2DIGIT
1165:                           ; day-month-year (e.g., 02-Jun-82)
1166:            date3        = month SP ( 2DIGIT | ( SP 1DIGIT ))
1167:                           ; month day (e.g., Jun  2)
1168:  

2digit found at line 1170:
1167:                           ; month day (e.g., Jun  2)
1168:  
1169:            time         = 2DIGIT ":" 2DIGIT ":" 2DIGIT
1170:                           ; 00:00:00 - 23:59:59
1171:  

2digit found at line 7652:
7649:  
7650:            warning-value = warn-code SP warn-agent SP warn-text
7651:            warn-code  = 2DIGIT
7652:            warn-agent = ( host [ ":" port ] ) | pseudonym
7653:                            ; the name or pseudonym of the server adding

1900 found at line 1083:
1080:     for TCP connections on that port of that host, and the Request-URI
1081:     for the resource is abs_path. The use of IP addresses in URL's SHOULD
1082:     be avoided whenever possible (see RFC 1900 [24]). If the abs_path is
1083:     not present in the URL, it MUST be given as "/" when used as a
1084:     Request-URI for a resource (section 5.1.2).

1900 found at line 8249:
8246:  
8247:     [24] Carpenter, B., and Y. Rekhter, "Renumbering Needs Work", RFC
8248:     1900, IAB, February 1996.
8249:  
8250:     [25] Deutsch, P., "GZIP file format specification version 4.3." RFC

2000 found at line 8453:
8450:    o  HTTP/1.1 clients and caches should assume that an RFC-850 date
8451:       which appears to be more than 50 years in the future is in fact
8452:       in the past (this helps solve the "year 2000" problem).
8453:  
8454:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2071.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 738:
735:        December 1995.
736:  
737:   [16] Carpenter, B., and Y. Rekhter, "Renumbering Needs Work", RFC 1900,
738:        February 1996.
739:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2072.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 206:
203:     Many discussions of renumbering emphasize interactions among
204:     organizations' numbering plans and those of the global Internet
205:     [RFC1900].  There can be equally strong motivations for renumbering
206:     in organizations that never connect to the global Internet.
207:  

1900 found at line 209:
206:     in organizations that never connect to the global Internet.
207:  
208:     According to RFC1900, "Unless and until viable alternatives are
209:     developed, extended deployment of Classless Inter-Domain Routing
210:     (CIDR) is vital to keep the Internet routing system alive and to

1900 found at line 2606:
2603:    February 1996.
2604:  
2605:    [RFC1900] Carpenter, B., and Y. Rekhter, "Renumbering Needs Work", RFC
2606:    1900, February 1996.
2607:  

1900 found at line 2607:
2604:  
2605:    [RFC1900] Carpenter, B., and Y. Rekhter, "Renumbering Needs Work", RFC
2606:    1900, February 1996.
2607:  
2608:    [RPS] Alaettinoglu, C., Bates, T., Gerich, E., Terpstra, M., and C.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2074.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 2041:
2038:         From [RFC1831]:
2039:  
2040:         Program numbers are given out in groups of hexadecimal 20000000
2041:         (decimal 536870912) according to the following chart:
2042:  

2000 found at line 2045:
2042:  
2043:                       0 - 1fffffff   defined by rpc@sun.com
2044:                20000000 - 3fffffff   defined by user
2045:                40000000 - 5fffffff   transient
2046:                60000000 - 7fffffff   reserved


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2077.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 315:
312:           Subject: model data file
313:  
314:           I1ZSTUwgVjEuMCBhc2NpaQojIFRoaXMgZmlsZSB3YXMgIGdlbmVyY...
315:           byBDb21tdW5pY2F0aW9ucwojIGh0dHA6Ly93d3cuY2hhY28uY29tC...
316:           IyB1c2VkIGluIHJvb20gMTkyICh0ZXN0IHJvb20pCiAgIAojIFRvc...


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2095.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 131:
128:       C: A0001 AUTHENTICATE CRAM-MD5
129:       S: + PDE4OTYuNjk3MTcwOTUyQHBvc3RvZmZpY2UucmVzdG9uLm1jaS5uZXQ+
130:       C: dGltIGI5MTNhNjAyYzdlZGE3YTQ5NWI0ZTZlNzMzNGQzODkw
131:       S: A0001 OK CRAM authentication successful
132:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 161:
158:        AUTHENTICATE command (or the similar POP3 AUTH command), yielding
159:  
160:             dGltIGI5MTNhNjAyYzdlZGE3YTQ5NWI0ZTZlNzMzNGQzODkw
161:  
162:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2096.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 134:
131:  
132:  ipForward MODULE-IDENTITY
133:      LAST-UPDATED "9609190000Z"     -- Thu Sep 26 16:34:47 PDT 1996
134:      ORGANIZATION "IETF OSPF Working Group"
135:      CONTACT-INFO

1900 found at line 147:
144:      DESCRIPTION
145:              "The MIB module for the display of CIDR multipath IP Routes."
146:      REVISION      "9609190000Z"
147:      DESCRIPTION
148:              "Revisions made by the OSPF WG."


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2099.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 14:
11:                        Request for Comments Summary
12:  
13:                           RFC Numbers 2000-2099
14:  
15:  Status of This Memo

2000 found at line 18:
15:  Status of This Memo
16:  
17:     This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 2000
18:     through RFCs 2099.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
19:     provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify

2000 found at line 60:
57:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 1]
58:  
59:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
60:  
61:  

2000 found at line 116:
113:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 2]
114:  
115:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
116:  
117:  

2000 found at line 172:
169:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 3]
170:  
171:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
172:  
173:  

2000 found at line 228:
225:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 4]
226:  
227:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
228:  
229:  

2000 found at line 284:
281:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 5]
282:  
283:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
284:  
285:  

2000 found at line 340:
337:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 6]
338:  
339:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
340:  
341:  

2000 found at line 396:
393:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 7]
394:  
395:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
396:  
397:  

2000 found at line 452:
449:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 8]
450:  
451:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
452:  
453:  

2000 found at line 508:
505:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 9]
506:  
507:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
508:  
509:  

2000 found at line 564:
561:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 10]
562:  
563:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
564:  
565:  

2000 found at line 620:
617:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 11]
618:  
619:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
620:  
621:  

2000 found at line 676:
673:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 12]
674:  
675:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
676:  
677:  

2000 found at line 732:
729:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 13]
730:  
731:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
732:  
733:  

2000 found at line 788:
785:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 14]
786:  
787:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
788:  
789:  

2000 found at line 844:
841:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 15]
842:  
843:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
844:  
845:  

2000 found at line 900:
897:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 16]
898:  
899:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
900:  
901:  

2000 found at line 956:
953:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 17]
954:  
955:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
956:  
957:  

2000 found at line 1012:
1009:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 18]
1010:  
1011:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
1012:  
1013:  

2000 found at line 1068:
1065:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 19]
1066:  
1067:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
1068:  
1069:  

2000 found at line 1124:
1121:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 20]
1122:  
1123:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
1124:  
1125:  

2000 found at line 1144:
1141:  
1142:  
1143:  2000    I.A.B.       Feb 97   INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS
1144:  
1145:  This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2101.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 353:
350:  
351:        Changing providers is just one possible reason for renumbering.
352:        The informational document [RFC 1900] shows why renumbering is an
353:        increasingly frequent event.  Both DHCP [RFC 1541] and PPP [RFC
354:        1661] promote the use of dynamic address allocation.

1900 found at line 534:
531:     solutions for renumbering sites.  The need to contain the  overhead
532:     in a rapidly growing Internet routing system is likely to make
533:     renumbering  more and more common [RFC 1900].
534:  
535:     The need to scale the Internet routing system, and the use of CIDR as

1900 found at line 632:
629:     Protocol", RFC 1825, September 1995.
630:  
631:     [RFC 1900] Carpenter, B., and Y. Rekhter, "Renumbering Needs Work",
632:     RFC 1900, February 1996.
633:  

1900 found at line 633:
630:  
631:     [RFC 1900] Carpenter, B., and Y. Rekhter, "Renumbering Needs Work",
632:     RFC 1900, February 1996.
633:  
634:     [RFC 1918] Rekhter, Y.,  Moskowitz, B., Karrenberg, D., de Groot, G.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2109.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1054:
1051:     date value in a fixed-length variant format in place of Max-Age:
1052:  
1053:     Wdy, DD-Mon-YY HH:MM:SS GMT
1054:  
1055:     Note that the Expires date format contains embedded spaces, and that


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2116.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 4132:
4129:        * MAIL.X-OD V2.3
4130:  
4131:        * MAIL.2000 V1.2, AKOM
4132:  
4133:        * MS-Mail

2000 found at line 5393:
5390:           1-800-257-OPEN (U.S. and Canada)
5391:           1-612-482-6736 (worldwide)
5392:           FAX: 1-612-482-2000 (worldwide)
5393:           EMAIL: info@cdc.com
5394:             or


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2134.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 30:
27:  
28:     To:    Department of Consumer and Regulatory Affairs
29:            Washington, D.C.  20001
30:  
31:         We, the undersigned natural persons of the age of eighteen years

2000 found at line 140:
137:     8. The address, including street and number, of the initial
138:        registered office of the corporation is c/o C T Corporation
139:        System, 1030 15th Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20005, and the
140:        name of its initial registered agent at such address is C T
141:        Corporation System.



