INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


                     Definitions of Managed Objects
               for the DS0 and DS0 Bundle Interface Type

                      Sun Feb 15 13:37:25 EST 1998


                   draft-ietf-trunkmib-ds0-mib-05.txt

                         David Fowler (editor)
                           Newbridge Networks
                          davef@newbridge.com



Status of this Memo

   This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
   documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas,
   and its working groups. Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

   To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
   ``1id-abstracts.txt'' listing contained in the Internet-Drafts Shadow
   Directories on ds.internic.net (US East Coast), nic.nordu.net
   (Europe), ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast), or munnari.oz.au (Pacific
   Rim).

Abstract

   This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management
   Information Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in
   the Internet community.  In particular, it describes objects used for
   managing DS0 and DS0 Bundle interfaces.  This document is a companion
   document with Definitions of Managed Objects for the DS1/E1/DS2/E2,
   DS3/E3 and SONET/SDH Interface Types, rfcTBD [6], rfcTBD [7] and
   rfc1595 [8].

   This memo specifies a MIB module in a manner that is both compliant
   to the SNMPv2 SMI, and semantically identical to the peer SNMPv1
   definitions.


Expires August 1998                                             [Page 1]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


   This memo does not specify a standard for the Internet community.

1.  The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework

   The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework consists of four major
   components.  They are:

   o    the SMI, described in RFC 1902 [1] - the mechanisms used for
        describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.

   o    the MIB-II, STD 17, RFC 1213 [2] - the core set of managed
        objects for the Internet suite of protocols.

   o    the protocol, STD 15, RFC 1157 [3] and/or RFC 1905 [4], - the
        protocol for accessing managed objects.

   The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the
   purpose of experimentation and evaluation.




























Expires August 1998                                             [Page 2]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


2.  Objects

   Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed
   the Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are
   defined using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1)
   defined in the SMI.  In particular, each object type is named by an
   OBJECT IDENTIFIER, an administratively assigned name.  The object
   type together with an object instance serves to uniquely identify a
   specific instantiation of the object.  For human convenience, we
   often use a textual string, termed the descriptor, to also refer to
   the object type.



































Expires August 1998                                             [Page 3]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


3.  Overview

   These objects are used when the particular media being used to
   realize an interface is a DS0 interface.  At present, this applies to
   these values of the ifType variable in the Internet-standard MIB:

        ds0 (81)
        ds0Bundle (82)


3.1.  BONDing Terminology   Please reference The BONDing Spec [9] for
definitions of terms used to describe bonding modes.


3.2.  Use of ifTable for DS0 Layer

The following items are defined in rfc1573 [5].

   Only the ifGeneralGroup needs to be supported.

           ifTable Object    Use for DS0 Layer
======================================================================
           ifIndex           Interface index.

           ifDescr           See interfaces MIB [5]

           ifType            ds0(81) or ds0Bundle (82)

           ifSpeed           64000 for ds0 regardless of the setting
                             of robbed bit signalling
                             n * 64000 for ds0Bundle

           ifPhysAddress     Not used.  This object should have an
                             octet string with zero length.

           ifAdminStatus     See interfaces MIB [5]

           ifOperStatus      See interfaces MIB [5]

           ifLastChange      See interfaces MIB [5]

           ifName            See interfaces MIB [5]

           ifLinkUpDownTrapEnable   Set to disabled(2).
                                    Supports read-only access.


Expires August 1998                                             [Page 4]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


           ifHighSpeed        0

           ifConnectorPresent Set to false(2).


3.3.  Using ifStackTable

   This section describes by example how to use ifStackTable to
   represent the relationship of ds0 and ds0Bundles with ds1 interfaces.
   Implementors of the stack table for ds0 and ds0Bundle interfaces
   should look at the appropriate RFC for the service being stacked on
   ds0s and ds0Bundles.  Examples given below are for illustration
   purposes only.

   Example: A Frame Relay Service is being carried on 4 ds0s of a ds1.

        +---------------------+
        | Frame Relay Service |
        +---------------------+
                   |
        +---------------------+
        | ds0Bundle           |
        +---------------------+
          |     |     |     |
        +---+ +---+ +---+ +---+
        |ds0| |ds0| |ds0| |ds0|
        +---+ +---+ +---+ +---+
          |     |     |     |
        +---------------------+
        | ds1                 |
        +---------------------+

   The assignment of the index values could for example be:

           ifIndex  Description
           1        FrameRelayService (type 44)
           2        ds0Bundle         (type 82)
           3        ds0 #1            (type 81)
           4        ds0 #2            (type 81)
           5        ds0 #3            (type 81)
           6        ds0 #4            (type 81)
           7        ds1               (type 18)

   The ifStackTable is then used to show the relationships between the
   various interfaces.


Expires August 1998                                             [Page 5]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


           ifStackTable Entries

           HigherLayer   LowerLayer
           0             1
           1             2
           2             3
           2             4
           2             5
           2             6
           3             7
           4             7
           5             7
           6             7
           7             0


   In the case where the frameRelayService is using a single ds0, then
   the ds0Bundle is not required.

        +---------------------+
        | Frame Relay Service |
        +---------------------+
          |
        +---+
        |ds0|
        +---+
          |
        +---------------------+
        | ds1                 |
        +---------------------+

   The assignment of the index values could for example be:

           ifIndex  Description
           1        FrameRelayService (type 44)
           2        ds0               (type 81)
           3        ds1               (type 18)

   The ifStackTable is then used to show the relationships between the
   various interfaces.

           ifStackTable Entries

           HigherLayer   LowerLayer
           0             1


Expires August 1998                                             [Page 6]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


           1             2
           2             3
           3             0

3.3.1.  Usage of Channelization for DS3, DS1, DS0

An example is given here to explain the channelization objects in the
DS3, DS1, and DS0 MIBs to help the implementor use the objects
correctly.  Treatment of E3 and E1 would be similar, with the number of
DS0s being different depending on the framing of the E1.  Timeslot 16 is
not created for framing types that do not pass data over it.

Assume that a DS3 (with ifIndex 1) is Channelized into DS1s (without
DS2s).  The object dsx3Channelization is set to enabledDs1.  There will
be 28 DS1s in the ifTable.  Assume the entries in the ifTable for the
DS1s are created in channel order and the ifIndex values are 2 through
29. In the DS1 MIB, there will be an entry in the dsx1ChanMappingTable
for each ds1.  The entries will be as follows:

        dsx1ChanMappingTable Entries

        ifIndex  dsx1Ds1ChannelNumber   dsx1ChanMappedIfIndex
        1        1                      2
        1        2                      3
        ......
        1        28                     29

In addition, the DS1s are channelized into DS0s.  The object
dsx1Channelization is set to enabledDS0 for each DS1.  When this object
is set to this value, 24 DS0s are created by the agent. There will be 24
DS0s in the ifTable for each DS1.  If the dsx1Channelization is set to
disabled, the 24 DS0s are destroyed.

Assume the entries in the ifTable are created in channel order and the
ifIndex values for the DS0s in the first DS1 are 30 through 53.  In the
DS0 MIB, there will be an entry in the dsx0ChanMappingTable for each
DS0.  The entries will be as follows:

        dsx0ChanMappingTable Entries

        ifIndex   dsx0Ds0ChannelNumber  dsx0ChanMappedIfIndex
        2         1                     30
        2         2                     31
        ......
        2         24                    53


Expires August 1998                                             [Page 7]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


3.3.2.  Usage of ifIndex Mapping for DS0Bundle

An example is given here to explain the ifIndex Mapping objects in the
DS0Bundle MIB to help the implementor use the objects correctly.

Assume that a DS1 (with ifIndex 1) is Channelized into DS0s.  There will
be 24 DS0s in the ifTable.  Assume the entries in the ifTable for the
DS0s are created in channel order and the ifIndex values are 2 through
25. Now, assume that there are two bundles on the DS1.  The first one
uses channels 1,4,5,6,7,8,9, and 10.  The second uses channels 3 and 4.
There will be two ifTable entries for these bundles, with values of 26
and 27 for ifIndex.  There will be an entry in the dsx0BundleTable for
each bundle.  The entries will be as follows:

        dsx0BundleTable Entries

        dsx0BundleIndex    dsx0BundleIfIndex
        1                  26
        2                  27

There will be an entry in the dsx0BundleMappingTable
for each bundle.  The entries will be as follows:

        dsx0BundleMappingTable Entries

        ifIndex  dsx0Ds0ChannelNumber   dsx0ChanMappedIfIndex
        1        1                      26
        1        3                      27


















Expires August 1998                                             [Page 8]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


4.  Overview of the MIB

   This document contains 2 MIB modules, the DS0 MIB and the DS0Bundle
   MIB.


4.1.  DS0 MIB   The DS0 MIB is used to represent individual DS0s in a
DS1 or E1.  Variables in this MIB would be created for each DS0 in the
ifTable.  This MIB contains the following group:

The DS0 Config Group - This group contains configuration information
about a particular DS0.


4.2.  DS0Bundle MIB   The DS0Bundle MIB is used to represent collections
of DS0s that are used together to carry data within a DS1 at speeds
greater than that of a single DS0.  DS0Bundles are created on top of
DS0s and are represented that way in the ifStackTable.  This MIB
contains the following group:

The DS0 Bundle Group - This group contains objects used for creating new
ds0Bundles.  This group is mandatory.

The DS0 Bonding Group - This group contains information about bonding
for a ds0Bundle, if bonding is enabled.  This group is optional.





















Expires August 1998                                             [Page 9]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


5.  Object Definitions for Ds0

          DS0-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

          IMPORTS
               MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE,
               transmission                     FROM SNMPv2-SMI
               MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP  FROM SNMPv2-CONF
               DisplayString, TruthValue        FROM SNMPv2-TC
               ifIndex, InterfaceIndex          FROM IF-MIB;

          --  This is the MIB module for the DS0 Interface objects.

          ds0 MODULE-IDENTITY
              LAST-UPDATED "9802151830Z"
              ORGANIZATION "IETF Trunk MIB Working Group"
              CONTACT-INFO
                "        David Fowler

                 Postal: Newbridge Networks Corporation
                         600 March Road
                         Kanata, Ontario, Canada K2K 2E6

                         Tel: +1 613 591 3600
                         Fax: +1 613 599 3667

                 E-mail: davef@newbridge.com"
              DESCRIPTION
                   "The MIB module to describe
                    DS0 interfaces objects."

              ::= { transmission 81 }














Expires August 1998                                            [Page 10]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


          -- The DS0 Config Group

          -- Implementation of this group is mandatory for all
          -- systems that use a DS0 Interface.

          -- The DS0 Config Group consists of two table:
          --    DS0 Configuration Table
          --    DS0 Channel Mapping Table

          -- the DS0 Configuration Table

          dsx0ConfigTable OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  SEQUENCE OF Dsx0ConfigEntry
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The DS0 Configuration table."
              ::= { ds0 1 }

          dsx0ConfigEntry OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Dsx0ConfigEntry
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "An entry in the DS0 Configuration table.  There
                      is an entry in this table for each DS0 interface"
              INDEX   { ifIndex }
              ::= { dsx0ConfigTable 1 }

          Dsx0ConfigEntry ::=
              SEQUENCE {
                  dsx0Ds0ChannelNumber     INTEGER,
                  dsx0RobbedBitSignalling  TruthValue,
                  dsx0CircuitIdentifier    DisplayString,
                  dsx0IdleCode             INTEGER,
                  dsx0SeizedCode           INTEGER,
                  dsx0ReceivedCode         INTEGER,
                  dsx0TransmitCodesEnable  TruthValue
          }

          dsx0Ds0ChannelNumber OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER(0..31)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION


Expires August 1998                                            [Page 11]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


                      "This object indicates the channel number of the
                      ds0 on its ds1/e1."
              ::= { dsx0ConfigEntry 1 }

          dsx0RobbedBitSignalling OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  TruthValue
              MAX-ACCESS  read-write
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "This object indicates if Robbed Bit Signalling is
                      turned on or off for a given ds0.  This only
                      applies to DS0s on a T1 link.  For E1 links the
                      value is always off (false)."
              ::= { dsx0ConfigEntry 2 }

          dsx0CircuitIdentifier OBJECT-TYPE
               SYNTAX  DisplayString (SIZE (0..255))
               MAX-ACCESS  read-write
               STATUS  current
               DESCRIPTION
                      "This variable contains the transmission vendor's
                      circuit identifier, for the purpose of
                      facilitating troubleshooting."
              ::= { dsx0ConfigEntry 3 }

          dsx0IdleCode OBJECT-TYPE
               SYNTAX  INTEGER(0..15)
               MAX-ACCESS  read-write
               STATUS  current
               DESCRIPTION
                      "This variable contains the code transmitted in
                      the ABCD bits when the ds0 is not connected and
                      dsx0TransmitCodesEnable is enabled.  The object is
                      a bitmap and the various bit positions are:
                            1     D bit
                            2     C bit
                            4     B bit
                            8     A bit"
              ::= { dsx0ConfigEntry 4 }

          dsx0SeizedCode OBJECT-TYPE
               SYNTAX  INTEGER(0..15)
               MAX-ACCESS  read-write
               STATUS  current
               DESCRIPTION


Expires August 1998                                            [Page 12]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


                      "This variable contains the code transmitted in
                      the ABCD bits when the ds0 is connected and
                      dsx0TransmitCodesEnable in enabled.  The object is
                      a bitmap and the various bit positions are:
                            1     D bit
                            2     C bit
                            4     B bit
                            8     A bit"
              ::= { dsx0ConfigEntry 5 }

          dsx0ReceivedCode OBJECT-TYPE
               SYNTAX  INTEGER(0..15)
               MAX-ACCESS  read-only
               STATUS  current
               DESCRIPTION
                      "This variable contains the code being recieved in
                      the ABCD bits.  The object is a bitmap and the
                      various bit positions are:
                            1     D bit
                            2     C bit
                            4     B bit
                            8     A bit"
              ::= { dsx0ConfigEntry 6 }

          dsx0TransmitCodesEnable OBJECT-TYPE
               SYNTAX TruthValue
               MAX-ACCESS  read-write
               STATUS  current
               DESCRIPTION
                      "This variable determines if the idle and siezed
                      codes are transmitted. If the value of this object
                      is true then the codes are transmitted."
              ::= { dsx0ConfigEntry 7 }

          -- The DS0 Channel Table

          dsx0ChanMappingTable OBJECT-TYPE
               SYNTAX  SEQUENCE OF Dsx0ChanMappingEntry
               MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
               STATUS  current
               DESCRIPTION
                      "The DS0 Channel Mapping table.  This table maps a
                      DS0 channel number on a particular DS1 into an
                      ifIndex.  "
               ::= { ds0 3 }


Expires August 1998                                            [Page 13]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


          dsx0ChanMappingEntry OBJECT-TYPE
               SYNTAX  Dsx0ChanMappingEntry
               MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
               STATUS  current
               DESCRIPTION
                      "An entry in the DS0 Channel Mapping table.  There
                      is an entry in this table corresponding to each
                      ds0 ifEntry within any interface that is
                      channelized to the individual ds0 ifEntry level.

                      This table is intended to facilitate mapping from
                      channelized interface / channel number to DS0
                      ifEntry.  (e.g. mapping (DS1 ifIndex, DS0 Channel
                      Number) -> ifIndex)

                      While this table provides information that can
                      also be found in the ifStackTable and
                      dsx0ConfigTable, it provides this same information
                      with a single table lookup, rather than by walking
                      the ifStackTable to find the various constituent
                      ds0 ifTable entries, and testing various
                      dsx0ConfigTable entries to check for the entry
                      with the applicable DS0 channel number."
               INDEX   { ifIndex, dsx0Ds0ChannelNumber }
               ::= { dsx0ChanMappingTable 1 }

          Dsx0ChanMappingEntry ::=
               SEQUENCE {
                   dsx0ChanMappedIfIndex  InterfaceIndex
          }

          dsx0ChanMappedIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
               SYNTAX  InterfaceIndex
               MAX-ACCESS  read-only
               STATUS  current
               DESCRIPTION
                      "This object indicates the ifIndex value assigned
                      by the agent for the individual ds0 ifEntry that
                      corresponds to the given DS0 channel number
                      (specified by the INDEX element
                      dsx0Ds0ChannelNumber) of the given channelized
                      interface (specified by INDEX element ifIndex)."
               ::= { dsx0ChanMappingEntry 1 }




Expires August 1998                                            [Page 14]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


          -- conformance information

          ds0Conformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ds0 2 }

          ds0Groups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ds0Conformance 1 }
          ds0Compliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ds0Conformance 2 }



          -- compliance statements

          ds0Compliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The compliance statement for DS0 interfaces."
              MODULE  -- this module
                  MANDATORY-GROUPS { ds0ConfigGroup }

                  OBJECT dsx0RobbedBitSignalling
                  MIN-ACCESS read-only
                  DESCRIPTION
                      "The ability to set RBS is not required."

                  OBJECT dsx0CircuitIdentifier
                  MIN-ACCESS read-only
                  DESCRIPTION
                      "The ability to set the circuit identifier is not
                      required."

                  OBJECT dsx0IdleCode
                  MIN-ACCESS read-only
                  DESCRIPTION
                      "The ability to set the idle code is not
                      required."

                  OBJECT dsx0SeizedCode
                  MIN-ACCESS read-only
                  DESCRIPTION
                      "The ability to set the seized code is not
                      required."

                  OBJECT dsx0TransmitCodesEnable
                  MIN-ACCESS read-only
                  DESCRIPTION
                      "The ability to enable and disable the


Expires August 1998                                            [Page 15]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


                      transmitting of idle and seized codes is not
                      required."

              ::= { ds0Compliances 1 }

          -- units of conformance

          ds0ConfigGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
              OBJECTS { dsx0Ds0ChannelNumber,
                        dsx0RobbedBitSignalling,
                        dsx0CircuitIdentifier,
                        dsx0IdleCode,
                        dsx0SeizedCode,
                        dsx0ReceivedCode,
                        dsx0TransmitCodesEnable,
                        dsx0ChanMappedIfIndex }
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "A collection of objects providing configuration
                      information applicable to all DS0 interfaces."
              ::= { ds0Groups 1 }

          END























Expires August 1998                                            [Page 16]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


6.  Object Definitions for Ds0 Bundle

          DS0BUNDLE-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

          IMPORTS
               MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE,
               transmission                      FROM SNMPv2-SMI
               MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP   FROM SNMPv2-CONF
               RowStatus, TestAndIncr            FROM SNMPv2-TC
               ifIndex, InterfaceIndex           FROM IF-MIB
               dsx0Ds0ChannelNumber              FROM DS0-MIB;

          --  This is the MIB module for the DS0Bundle Interface
          --  objects.

          ds0Bundle MODULE-IDENTITY
              LAST-UPDATED "9802112330Z"
              ORGANIZATION "IETF Trunk MIB Working Group"
              CONTACT-INFO
                "        David Fowler

                 Postal: Newbridge Networks Corporation
                         600 March Road
                         Kanata, Ontario, Canada K2K 2E6

                         Tel: +1 613 591 3600
                         Fax: +1 613 599 3667

                 E-mail: davef@newbridge.com"
              DESCRIPTION
                   "The MIB module to describe
                    DS0 Bundle interfaces objects."

              ::= { transmission 82 }












Expires August 1998                                            [Page 17]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


          --
          -- The DS0 Bundle Config Group
          --
          -- Implementation of this group is mandatory for all
          -- systems that use a DS0Bundle Interface.
          --
          -- The DS0 Bundle Config Group consists of two tables:
          --    DS0 Bundle Table
          --    DS0 Bundle Mapping Table

          --  The Ds0 Bundle Table

          dsx0BundleNextIndex OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  TestAndIncr
              MAX-ACCESS  read-write
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "This object is used to assist the manager in
                      selecting a value for dsx0BundleIndex.  Because
                      this object is of syntax TestAndIncr (see the
                      SNMPv2-TC document, RFC1903) it can also be used
                      to avoid race conditions with multiple managers
                      trying to create rows in the table.

                      If the result of the SET for dsx0BundleNextIndex
                      is not success, this means the value has been
                      changed from index (i.e. another manager used the
                      value), so a new value is required.

                      The alorithm is:
                      while done == false
                          index = GET (dsx0BundleNextIndex.0)
                          SET (dsx0BundleNextIndex.0=index)
                          if (set failed)
                            done = false
                          else
                            SET(dsx0BundleRowStatus.index=createAndGo)
                            if (set failed)
                              done = false
                            else
                              done = true
                              other error handling"
              ::= { ds0Bundle 2 }

          dsx0BundleTable OBJECT-TYPE


Expires August 1998                                            [Page 18]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


              SYNTAX  SEQUENCE OF Dsx0BundleEntry
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "  There is an row in this table for each
                      ds0Bundle in the system.  This table can be  used
                      to (indirectly) create rows in the ifTable with
                      ifType = 'ds0Bundle(82)'."
              ::= { ds0Bundle 3 }

          dsx0BundleEntry OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Dsx0BundleEntry
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "There is a row in entry in this table for each
                      ds0Bundle interface."
              INDEX   { dsx0BundleIndex }
              ::= { dsx0BundleTable 1 }

          Dsx0BundleEntry ::=
              SEQUENCE {
                  dsx0BundleIndex     INTEGER,
                  dsx0BundleIfIndex   InterfaceIndex,
                  dsx0BundleRowStatus RowStatus
          }

          dsx0BundleIndex OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (0..2147483647)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-create
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "A unique identifier for a ds0Bundle.  This is not
                      the same value as ifIndex.  This table is not
                      indexed by ifIndex because the manager has to
                      choose the index in a createable row and the agent
                      must be allowed to select ifIndex values."
              ::= { dsx0BundleEntry 1 }

          dsx0BundleIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  InterfaceIndex
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The ifIndex value the agent selected for the


Expires August 1998                                            [Page 19]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


                      (new) ds0Bundle interface."
              ::= { dsx0BundleEntry 2 }

          dsx0BundleRowStatus OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  RowStatus
              MAX-ACCESS  read-create
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "This object is used to create and delete rows in
                      this table."
              ::= { dsx0BundleEntry 3 }

          -- The DS0 Bundle Mapping Table

          dsx0BundleMappingTable OBJECT-TYPE
               SYNTAX  SEQUENCE OF Dsx0BundleMappingEntry
               MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
               STATUS  current
               DESCRIPTION
                      "The DS0 Bundle Mapping table.  This table maps
                      the first DS0 channel number in a DS0 Bundle on a
                      particular DS1 into an ifIndex.  "
               ::= { ds0Bundle 5 }

          dsx0BundleMappingEntry OBJECT-TYPE
               SYNTAX  Dsx0BundleMappingEntry
               MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
               STATUS  current
               DESCRIPTION
                      "An entry in the DS0 Bundle Mapping table.  There
                      is an entry in this table corresponding to each
                      ds0Bundle ifEntry within any interface that
                      contains ds0Bundles.

                      This table is intended to facilitate mapping from
                      channelized interface / channel number to
                      DS0Bundle ifEntry.  (e.g. mapping (DS1 ifIndex,
                      DS0 Channel Number) -> ifIndex) where channel
                      number is the lowest channel number in a
                      ds0Bundle.

                      While this table provides information that can
                      also be found in the ifStackTable and
                      dsx0ConfigTable, it provides this same information
                      with a single table lookup, rather than by walking


Expires August 1998                                            [Page 20]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


                      the ifStackTable to find the various constituent
                      ds0Bundle ifTable entries, and testing various
                      dsx0ConfigTable entries to check for the entry
                      with the applicable DS0 channel number."
               INDEX   { ifIndex, dsx0Ds0ChannelNumber }
               ::= { dsx0BundleMappingTable 1 }

          Dsx0BundleMappingEntry ::=
               SEQUENCE {
                   dsx0BundleMappedIfIndex  InterfaceIndex
          }

          dsx0BundleMappedIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
               SYNTAX  InterfaceIndex
               MAX-ACCESS  read-only
               STATUS  current
               DESCRIPTION
                      "This object indicates the ifIndex value assigned
                      by the agent for the individual ds0Bundle ifEntry
                      that begins with the given DS0 channel number
                      (specified by the INDEX element
                      dsx0Ds0ChannelNumber) of the given channelized
                      interface (specified by INDEX element ifIndex)."
               ::= { dsx0BundleMappingEntry 1 }


          -- The DS0 Bonding Group

          -- Implementation of this group is optional for all
          -- systems that use a DS0Bundle Interface.

          -- The DS0 Bonding Group consists of one table:
          --    DS0 Bonding

          -- the DS0 Bonding Table

          dsx0BondingTable OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  SEQUENCE OF Dsx0BondingEntry
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The DS0 Bonding table."
              ::= { ds0Bundle 1 }

          dsx0BondingEntry OBJECT-TYPE


Expires August 1998                                            [Page 21]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


              SYNTAX  Dsx0BondingEntry
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "An entry in the DS0 Bonding table.  There is a
                      row in this table for each DS0Bundle interface."
              INDEX   { ifIndex }
              ::= { dsx0BondingTable 1 }

          Dsx0BondingEntry ::=
              SEQUENCE {
                  dsx0BondMode            INTEGER,
                  dsx0BondStatus          INTEGER,
                  dsx0BondRowStatus       RowStatus
          }

          dsx0BondMode OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER {
                          none(1),
                          other(2),
                          mode0(3),
                          mode1(4),
                          mode2(5),
                          mode3(6)
              }
              MAX-ACCESS  read-create
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "This object indicates which BONDing mode is used,
                      if any, for a ds0Bundle.  Mode0 provides parameter
                      and number exchange with no synchronization.  Mode
                      1 provides parameter and number exchange.  Mode 1
                      also provides synchronization during
                      initialization but does not include inband
                      monitoring.  Mode 2 provides all of the above plus
                      inband monitoring.  Mode 2 also steals 1/64th of
                      the bandwidth of each channel (thus not supporting
                      n x 56/64 kbit/s data channels for most values of
                      n). Mode 3 provides all of the above, but also
                      provides n x 56/64 kbit/s data channels.  Most
                      common implementations of Mode 3 add an extra
                      channel to support the inband monitoring overhead.
                      ModeNone should be used when the interface is not
                      performing bandwidth-on-demand."
              ::= { dsx0BondingEntry 1 }


Expires August 1998                                            [Page 22]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


          dsx0BondStatus OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER {
                          idle(1),
                          callSetup(2),
                          dataTransfer(3)
              }
              MAX-ACCESS  read-create
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "This object indicates the current status of the
                      bonding call using this ds0Bundle. idle(1) should
                      be used when the bonding mode is set to none(1)."
              ::= { dsx0BondingEntry 2 }

          dsx0BondRowStatus OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  RowStatus
              MAX-ACCESS  read-create
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "This object is used to create new rows in this
                      table, modify existing rows, and to delete
                      existing rows."
              ::= { dsx0BondingEntry 3 }




          -- conformance information

          ds0BundleConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ds0Bundle 4 }

          ds0BundleGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER
              ::= { ds0BundleConformance 1 }

          ds0BundleCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER
              ::= { ds0BundleConformance 2 }



          -- compliance statements

          ds0BundleCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The compliance statement for DS0Bundle


Expires August 1998                                            [Page 23]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


                      interfaces."
              MODULE  -- this module
                  MANDATORY-GROUPS {ds0BundleConfigGroup }
                  GROUP       ds0BondingGroup
                  DESCRIPTION
                      "Implementation of this group is optional for all
                      systems that attach to a DS0Bundle Interface."
              ::= { ds0BundleCompliances 1 }

          -- units of conformance

          ds0BondingGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
              OBJECTS { dsx0BondMode,
                        dsx0BondStatus,
                        dsx0BondRowStatus }
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "A collection of objects providing configuration
                      information applicable to all DS0 interfaces."
              ::= { ds0BundleGroups 1 }

          ds0BundleConfigGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
              OBJECTS { dsx0BundleNextIndex,
                        dsx0BundleIndex,
                        dsx0BundleIfIndex,
                        dsx0BundleRowStatus,
                        dsx0BundleMappedIfIndex }
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "A collection of objects providing the ability to
                      create a new ds0Bundle in the ifTable."
              ::= { ds0BundleGroups 2 }
          END


7.  Acknowledgments

   This document was produced by the Trunk MIB Working Group:








Expires August 1998                                            [Page 24]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


8.  References

   [1]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
        S. Waldbusser, "Structure of Management Information for Version
        2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902,
        January 1996.

   [2]  McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management
        Information Base for Network Management of TCP/IP-based
        internets: MIB-II", STD 17, RFC 1213, Hughes LAN Systems,
        Performance Systems International, March 1991.

   [3]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin. " A Simple
        Network Management Protocol (SNMP)", STD 15, RFC 1157, SNMP
        Research, Performance Systems International, MIT Lab for
        Computer Science, May 1990.

   [4]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
        S. Waldbusser, "Protocol Operations for Version 2 of the Simple
        Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

   [5]  McCloghrie, K. and F. Kastenholz, "Evolution of the
        Interfaces Group of MIB-II", RFC2233, Cisco,
        FTP Software, November 1997.

   [6]  Fowler, D., "Definitions of Managed Objects for the
        DS1/E1/DS2/E2 Interface Types",
        draft-ietf-trunkmib-ds1-mib-07.txt, Newbridge Networks,
        November 1997.

   [7]  Fowler, D., "Definitions of Managed Objects
        for the DS3/E3 Interface Types",
        draft-ietf-trunkmib-ds3-mib-06.txt, Newbridge Networks,
        November 1997.

   [8]  Brown, T., and Tesink, K., "Definitions of Managed Objects
        for the SONET/SDH Interface Type",
        draft-ietf-atommib-sonetng-02.txt, Bell Communications
        Research, August 1997.

   [9]  Sharp, H. (Editor), "Interoperability Requirements for Nx56/64
        kbit/s Calls", BONDING Spec Version 1.0, BONDING Consortium,
        Sept 1992.



Expires August 1998                                            [Page 25]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


9.  Security Considerations

   This MIB adds no security issues that are not raised by SNMP itself.
   As a Network Management Protocol, SNMP is capable of changing the
   configuration of a system, of denial of service attacks through
   requiring the agent to respond to its messages, and displaying values
   of system counters and configuration settings in the clear where an
   adversary might read them. This, however, is not in itself a threat:
   this is the function of the protocol, but could be misused. Such
   misuse can be avoided or minimized through SNMP Security.

   Setting the following object to an inappropriate value can cause loss
   of traffic. The setting of dsx0RobberBitSignalling describes the
   nature of the traffic transmitting on the DS0.
      dsx0RobbedBitSignalling

   Setting the following objects is mischevious, but not harmful to
   traffic
      dsx0CircuitIdentifier
      dsx0IdleCode
      dsx0SeizedCode
      dsx0TransmitCodesEnable
      dsx0BundleNextIndex



10.  Authors' Addresses

      David Fowler
      Newbridge Networks
      600 March Road
      Kanata, Ontario, Canada K2K 2E6

      Phone: (613) 599-3600, ext 6559

      EMail: davef@newbridge.com










Expires August 1998                                            [Page 26]

INTERNET-DRAFT                  DS0 MIB                    February 1998


   Table of Contents


   1 The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework ......................    2
   2 Objects ......................................................    3
   3 Overview .....................................................    4
   3.1 BONDing Terminology ........................................    4
   3.2 Use of ifTable for DS0 Layer ...............................    4
   3.3 Using ifStackTable .........................................    5
   3.3.1 Usage of Channelization for DS3, DS1, DS0 ................    7
   3.3.2 Usage of ifIndex Mapping for DS0Bundle ...................    8
   4 Overview of the MIB ..........................................    9
   4.1 DS0 MIB ....................................................    9
   4.2 DS0Bundle MIB ..............................................    9
   5 Object Definitions for Ds0 ...................................   10
   5.1 The DS0 Config Group .......................................   11
   5.1.1 The DS0 Configuration Table ..............................   11
   5.1.2 The DS0 Channel Table ....................................   13
   6 Object Definitions for Ds0 Bundle ............................   17
   6.1 The DS0 Bundle Config Group ................................   18
   6.1.1 The Ds0 Bundle Table .....................................   18
   6.1.2 The DS0 Bundle Mapping Table .............................   20
   6.2 The DS0 Bonding Group ......................................   21
   6.2.1 The DS0 Bonding Table ....................................   21
   7 Acknowledgments ..............................................   24
   8 References ...................................................   25
   9 Security Considerations ......................................   26
   10 Authors' Addresses ..........................................   26


















Expires August 1998                                            [Page 27]
