Internet Engineering Task Force                   
Internet Draft                                             James M. Polk
Expiration: May 22nd, 2002                                 Cisco Systems
File: draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt            


   



   


   
                          An Architecture for
             Multi-Level Precedence and Preemption over IP
   
                         November 21st, 2001 
   
     





     
Status of this Memo 
     
This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all 
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026. 
    
Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task 
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups. Note that other groups 
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts. 
    
Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months and 
may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any time. It 
is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material or to cite 
them other than as "work in progress." 
    
The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at 
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt 
    
The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed 
at http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html. 


Conventions used in this document

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", 
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this 
   document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC-2119].









Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt               Page 1

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001






Abstract 


Table of Contents 
     
Abstract   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
Table of Contents    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
1.0   Introduction   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
2.0   Definitions and Conventions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
3.0   Motivation for replicating functionality into IP Networks  . . .  8
4.0   MLPP Requirements in any Network   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
4.1   MLPP Precedence. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
4.2   MLPP Preemption. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
4.2.1 Access Preemption Event  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
4.2.2 Network Preemption Event . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
4.3   MLPP Feature Scenarios   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
4.3.1 Bearer Services Supported  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
4.3.2 Commonalities of Interest  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
4.3.3 Conferences Preset   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
5.0   MoIP Requirements and solutions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
5.1   Setting Priority to an MoIP Session  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
5.2   SDP in MoIP  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
5.3   SIP in MoIP  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
5.4   MEGACO in MoIP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
5.5   MGCP for MoIP  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
5.6   Differentiated Services in MoIP  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
5.7   RSVP in MoIP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
5.8   NSIS in MoIP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19
5.9   MPLS in MoIP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
5.10  RTP for MoIP . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
5.11  Gateway Requirements Regardless of Protocol  . . . . . . . . . . 20
6.0   IANA Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
7.0   Security Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
8.0   Changes since last version   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
9.0   Acknowledgements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
10.0  References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21
11.0  Author Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
Appendix A . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  






1.0 Introduction

The intent of this document is to introduce an Architecture for Multi-
Level Precedence and Preemption (MLPP) into the IP realm. MLPP was 
originally written to create "a prioritized call handling service" [1] 
in  combination with ISDN supplementary services. MLPP has two very 
simple concepts for voice (Real-Time) communications: 


Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt               Page 2

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001


       A) setting or marking every session at inception with a 
          Precedence level relative to others within a known network 
          domain; and 

       B) the end-stations or internetworking devices preempting 
          lower relative priority sessions in order for higher 
          relative level sessions to pass or occur during times of 
          congestion at any point in that known, managed domain, 
          including to the end-station (phone). 

This concept has existed for more than a decade, and been deployed in many 
networks throughout the world for years. It is based, or founded, in US 
Government network requirements. It is an augmentation service to ANSI's 
ISDN [21,22,23,24]. This document is the first attempt, though incomplete 
at this time, at bringing those specialized functionalities of MLPP from a 
more traditional world voice communications delivery practice into the IP 
realm. 

MLPP over IP, or MoIP, shall specific as many IETF Standards and practices 
as possible. The intend here is not to reinvent anything that already 
exists. However, certain functionalities in IETF Protocols will require 
adjusting, or extending, to fit the MLPP model that will be laid out 
within this document to satisfy the requirements and experiences of the 
trained user of MLPP in the past.

Most of the specifications and concepts stated here for MLPP were taken 
from the ANSI specification T1.619-1992 [1] and its supplement T1.619A-
1994 [2]. Still other specifications and concepts stated here are from ITU 
Q.735.3 [19]. Any remaining details and concepts attained from documents 
came from the certification materials which all products must tested 
against to achieve MLPP compliance and interoperability status [17,18]. 
There are a few concepts mentioned here that were attained from inter-
viewing users and testers of MLPP for guidance of how this MLPP-concept 
might be enhanced with the additional capabilities that IP and IP-based 
services brings to offer.

This document will state its scope, to include what will and will not be 
covered here. It will define all the terms as best as possible due the 
readers might not be completely familiar or savvy with the IETF and its 
languages, but from more of a telephony background where MLPP lives today. 
This document will then define the network feature and functions necessary 
to be compliant with existing MLPP networks. This is as much a background 
and education, or level-setting, as anything. This section will detail the 
known behaviors each component of an MLPP network must do under explained 
circumstances and scenarios.

The next section will get into the IP realm of MoIP. Please notice the 
convention change. Within this document, MLPP shall refer to the tra-
ditional GSTN-based MLPP network and all components and requirements; 
whereas, MoIP shall refer to its IP based counterpart. That Counterpart 
shall be near in functionality, but this isn't exactly an apples to apples 
conversion from one topology to another. Some things will change. Some 
functionality will be done a different way, some will be enhanced, and 
some functionality will not exactly be replicated. The circuit switched 



Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt               Page 3

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001

world has some advantages, such as maintaining state of a circuit end-to-
end, that IP doesn't have easily. As best as possible, the document shall 
point out where a functionality is enhanced, duplicated, or how far 
replication falls short.

Next there will be an IANA Considerations section to the IANA group for 
registration of mappings, which shouldn't occur here as this is not a 
Standards Track document. This section will be followed by the security 
considerations section which states all the security problems enacting 
this document should cause. No normative language should be within this 
section, but here there shall be the remaining caveats not previously 
covered within this document, with some reminders, but more general 
language here. The details are within the document's main text in previous 
sections.

The next 4 sections are: Acknowledgements, the changes since the last 
version of document, the references and author's information sections.

After the main body of this document, following the author section, are 
the Appendices, which are empty in this version. These are of importance 
as they shall contain the examples sections of network topologies with 
certain functionalities present, and others not present, and the details 
of how the basic MLPP requirements are met within the MoIP part of that 
topology. There shall be a different Appendix for each topology and set of 
protocols present. Within each Appendix, the rules stay the same for each 
MLPP requirement to be explained. There could potentially be an endless 
number of Appendices, but the most popular, or most predictable present 
set of topologies are detailed out here. As this document progresses, I 
expect more and more examples, or Appendices, to be written, and discus-
sion occurs regarding this document, and IÆm reminded how certain 'impor-
tant' environments were left out, and but should be included and explained 
within this document to be considered more complete.


2.0 Definitions and Conventions

The following is a list of definitions and conventions to used throughout 
this document. Note that some of the definitions are either MLPP *or* IP 
centric, and might not make sense to the other. Advice is taking these 
words in the context of the section of this document they are written in.

Alternate Party      Is another endstation which is configured for any 
                     call diversion if the Called device has an inbound 
                     Precedence inbound call while that Called User is 
                     actively on a call/session

Assured Forwarding   AF [13] in Diffserv û marks the IP Headers with a 
                     codepoint value relating to the expected behavior of 
                     that value throughout a single IP domain on a per hop 
                     basis

DE                   MLPP defined as the PBX the destination endstation is 
                     directly connected to





Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt               Page 4

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001

Diffserv             Differentiated Services [3] û IETF Standard defining 
                     a Priority marking of IP Packets to achieve deter-
                     ministic behavior through an IP-based network

Domain               For MLPP, the set of MLPP subscribers and contiguous 
                     network resources in use at any time supporting those 
                     MLPP subscribers;
                     For IP, everything within the logical IP boundary 
                     supporting MoIP capabilities in a single network

Edge Router          ER - A Router at the logical boundary of an MoIP 
                     Domain

End Office Node      EN û see EOS

End Office Switch    EOS û Similar to a PBX configured to only service 
                     that local community and its needs; it is internal 
                     network controlled; this unit connects all CPE 
                     equipment in that community

Endpoint             H.323-based voice device (IP Phone) utilizing only 
                     H.323 Signaling Protocols

Expedited Forwarding EF marking [12] in Diffserv creating a forwarding 
                     queue with no other above it, that in which a packet 
                     entering the queue shall not be delayed by more than 
                     one packet length/time from any other queue

Gateway              converts media provided in one type of network to the 
                     format required in another type of network; the 
                     gateway shall be capable of full duplex audio trans-
                     lations

GSTN                 Global Switched Telephony Network û worldwide circuit 
                     switched public telephony network

H.323                ITU originated Peer-to-Peer Multimedia Signaling 
                     Protocol

ISDN                 Integrated Services Data Network 

Label Switched Path  LSP û MPLS short fixed length label assigned to 
                     packets upon ingress to an MPLS cloud. This label 
                     is what MPLS Routers use to make forwarding decisions 
                     on.

Look ahead For Busy  LFB û this optional feature has one endstation 
                     prematurely acquiring the path, preempting if 
                     necessary, to another endstation; this can occur 
                     any interval before the call/session is actually 
                     placed

Media Gateway        See Gateway above û but one side is IP, and the is 
                     not; could be analog voice of an IP phone, or it 
                     could be a trunk interface to a PBX



Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt               Page 5

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001


Media Gateway Controller  MGC û or Call Agent û the server that acts as 
                     the control plane for audio, video, or both, or 
                     full multimedia communications

MGCP                 Media Gateway Control Protocol û IETF Informational 
                     RFC 2705 Client/Server based Call Control Protocol of 
                     media Gateways (Gateways or IP Phones), resulted from 
                     the merger of IPDC and SGCP

MLPP                 Multi-level Precedence and Preemption [1 & 2] û ANSI 
                     T1.619 and 619A specifications stipulating mechanisms 
                     for marking each voice communication with a Prece-
                     dence level, and defining the requirement for the 
                     Preemption of lower Precedence existing sessions 
                     during congestion in favor of new higher Precedence 
                     sessions

MoIP                 MLPP over IP

MPLS                 Multi Protocol Label Switching [4] û IETF Standard 
                     for using label switching and for the implementation 
                     of label-switched paths over various link-level tech-
                     nologies, such as Packet-over-Sonet, Frame Relay, 
                     ATM, and LAN technologies 

Multifunction Switch MFS - A combination of a End Office Switch (EOS) and 
                     Tandem Switch (TS); having trunking and CPE connec-
                     tion capabilities within one, more economical unit

NSIS                 Next Steps in Switching û currently a  proposed IETF 
                     Working Group to focus on simplifying signaling 
                     within a network vs. a more heavyweight version: RSVP

OE                   MLPP defined as the PBX the originating endstation is 
                     directly connected to

Precedence           The relative priority level assigned to each session

Precedence Call      Any call that has a Precedence level higher than 
                     Routine

Preempt Notification The notification sent from the endstation receiving 
                     the inbound preempting call to the endstation being 
                     preempted from their previous call/session

Preempted            The audible notification sent to all endstations who 
                     have been preempted for any reason

Preempting Call      Is a call with a Precedence level higher than others 
                     on a specified interface at a time of congestion, 
                     including an end-station that is on a call

Proxy Server         SIP Server [6] that acts on behalf of other Devices




Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt               Page 6

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001

Registrar Server     SIP Server [6] that serves as a Registration point 
                     principally for mobility

Response Timer T-sub-K  Is started when the network notifies the Called 
                     device of a inbound precedence call; acceptance must 
                     occur by the Called device; the timer is specified in 
                     [1] at from 4 û 30 seconds

Response Timer T-sub-L  Is started when an LFB information unit is sent 
                     into the network to establish an open path between 
                     the Calling endstation and the intended called end-
                     station; the timer is expected in [1] as from 5 û 20 
                     seconds

RSVP                 Resource Reservation Protocol û IETF Standard defined 
                     in RFC 2205, for reserving bandwidth from end station 
                     to end station, without congestion affecting it once 
                     the path exists

SLA                  Service Link Agreement û Agreement between two adja-
                     cent networks on many aspects of how one's traffic 
                     gets treated within the other's network

Switch               Packet-based multiport Router intended for internal 
                     network use and not connected between different 
                     networks (owners); here they are Layer 3, or IP- 
                     Header, aware devices that switch packets to desti-
                     nation interfaces based on the Destination address 
                     within a packet

Tandem Switch        TS - Only connects to EOS's; is the primary backbone 
                     of a circuit-switched MLPP Network

Termination          The end of a circuit, or in the MEGACO definition, 
                     the end device, a Gateway circuit or IP-based Phone

Transit Router       Router or any Layer 3 aware device that is not an 
                     endpoint in the communications path, but that path 
                     travels through it to get to the destination

User Agent           SIP [6] defined as an application which can act both 
                     as a user agent client and user agent server

User Agent Client    SIP [6] defined is a client application that initi-
                     ates a SIP request

User Agent Server    SIP [6] defined A user agent server is a server 
                     Application that contacts the user when a SIP request 
                     is received and that returns a response on behalf of 
                     the user. The response accepts, rejects or redirects 
                     the request.







Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt               Page 7

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001

VPN                  Virtual Private Network; defined as existing among 
                     many devices, but able to communicate with only a 
                     network pre-configured limited number of devices, at 
                     the same time, devices not belonging to this group 
                     within the private network cannot communicate within 
                     either


3.0 Motivation for replicating functionality into IP Networks

Many MLPP-based networks wish to move into the IP realm, yet have opera-
tional features and functions that the administrators of these networks 
deem important/mandatory, and are not willing to set aside in this 
migration which arenÆt available or defined in IP yet. Accomplishing 
certain of these functionalities is similar to fitting a round peg into a 
square hole. MLPP is circuit-based technology, and IP is packet-based. To 
accomplish a task that is easy within MLPP, such as Look ahead For Busy 
(LFB), which ensures that one phone has a clear and open path to make a 
call to another phone, even though the calling phone hasn't started to 
make the call, and might not for seconds, minutes or hours, makes sense in 
the networks where MLPP exists presently; but that feature makes little to 
no sense in IP networks where available bandwidth is freely given on a 
best effort basis through any internetworking interface at that moment û 
much less reserving that bandwidth for future use, if used at all. An 
exception does exist in IP for this example, but it only reserves 
bandwidth end-to-end if that bandwidth is available through each transit 
Router, and upon set-up of that symmetrical session that is about to 
occur, not before. 

MLPP has very little impact on end devices like the phones because all the 
signaling and processing is in the EOS, not the phone. Signaling mecha-
nisms that have stateful awareness, and have this resource reservation 
feature enabled from the example above have a great impact on the 
processor of that end device (IP Phone) the way the IETF Protocols are 
written today. IP has no physical circuit endpoint to map to in these 
transit Routers (unlike the EOS or TN in MLPP networks); no easy way to 
reserve a fixed portion of bandwidth; in fact, these transit Routers 
almost never know which packet belongs to which session going through it, 
or that any sessions are going through it.

These administrators understand that IP Telephony offers significant 
increases in features, functionality and services for all end-users. 
However, there has not yet been an effort to describe this architecture 
with IP. This document takes that challenge.


4.0 MLPP Requirements in any Network

This section details the requirements of MLPP without IP and, as best as 
can be accomplished, without ISDN or SS7. Many circuit-switched nomen-
clatures and references (words, not bibliographical) will be made due to 
MLPP only existing in the circuit-switched world to this point in time. It 
is an attempt at a generic, yet specific set of network requirements for 
any network to function as an MLPP compliant network; and yet not too 
specific to the circuit-switched world as to detail Bellcore's Local 
Access Transport Area (LATA) Switching Systems Generic Requirements 


Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt               Page 8

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001

 (LSSGR), FR-64. Where possible, language will exist that attempts to 
convey whatever tone or spirit these MLPP references make to these 
requirements û for clarity and understanding in making IP equivalents and 
solutions for MLPP in a packet environment.

For this to happen, the core MLPP documents [1 & 2] must be referenced in 
detail, as well as the documents involving the actual testing of any 
component for certification of MLPP compliance [17,18,19]. 

The root specification [1] states that there are two parts to MLPP 
conceptually: Precedence and Preemption.


4.1 MLPP Precedence

Precedence means Priority, relative priority to all other calls within 
that single domain. It is set or assigned by the calling party at the 
beginning of a call, on a per call basis by that party.  Once the 
precedence level is chosen by a caller, it cannot be changed for the 
duration of that call. However, the next call being independent of the 
first call, can be made at another authorized level, also chosen by the 
calling party.

Precedence Values are:

    1    "0000" = "Flash Override" (highest level)
    2    "0001" = "Flash"
    3    "0010" = "Immediate"
    4    "0011" = "Priority"
    5    "0100" = "Routine"        (lowest level)
          "0101 û 1111" are unspecified


The above list of precedence levels are listed in order from highest to 
lowest; meaning no call SHALL be of higher priority than "Flash Override" 
in an MLPP domain, the "Flash", and so on down to "Routine" as the lowest 
level able to be signified. "Routine" is for normal, everyday phone calls. 
The unspecified values, if ever used, are to have priority levels below 
that of "Routine"; none have been utilized to date [17]. 

The Precedence levels authorized for a phone are set up for that circuit, 
ensuring the user of that phone cannot use a level above what they are 
authorized to gain access to.


4.2 MLPP Preemption

Preemption is the seizing of otherwise used resources of one or more calls 
in order to complete another call in a congestion situation. This is 
determined by EOS's or TN's evaluating or comparing the Precedence levels 
of all existing calls outbound on a circuit or a trunk, upon a time of 
congestion or no other resources available on that same interface, with 
the level of the next inbound call (set-up) intended to egress that same 
interface. One or more resources can be cleared for a higher precedence 
level call, ensuring that call the newly available resources.



Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt               Page 9

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001


There are two modes of Preemption: preemption of the called device with 
another inbound higher precedence call (Access Preemption), and preemption 
within the network not involving either party of the preempted call at 
all, but at a point of congestion (Network Preemption). 

MLPP is mandated as having influence with a single domain based imple-
mentation only . The precedence value set in one MLPP Domain SHOULD NOT 
cross Domain boundaries into another domain and have any preferential 
treatment applied to that call. The MLPP Domain-Identifier was included 
for this reason into the ISDN signaling for MLPP service. MLPP compliant 
Tandems (TN's) are to look at the Precedence level set within the call 
set-up signaling as well as the domain identifier within that same call 
set-up to ensure validity within that network. This prevented leaking of 
one domain's call behavior into another's. In other words, no preemption 
of any resources shall occur within a domain as a result of a call into 
that domain from outside the domain, even if both domains are MLPP 
compliant networks;

Here are the three preemption conditions:

    o A distinctive preemption notification (tone) shall be introduced 
      into any connection(s) that is to be cleared due to either a Access 
      or network Preemption event;

    o The party on the inbound end of a preempting call MUST acknowledge 
      that inbound call before connection to that call; 

    o Upon determination of no available resources and calls existing on 
      an interface of lower precedence, the lowest level call(s) MUST be 
      cleared in order to complete the higher precedence call;

A call can be preempted at any time after the precedence level has been 
determined to be lower than the existing call and before call clearing has 
begun. However, no preemption of any resources shall occur within a domain 
as a result of a call into that domain from not originating in that 
domain, even if both domains are MLPP compliant networks. 

A clarification must be stated: higher precedence provides preferential 
call handling throughout an MLPP domain, regardless of how much higher a 
call is relative to others. For example, a "Routine" call is equally lower 
in precedence level than "Priority", "Immediate", "Flash" and "Flash 
Override" as far as preferential treatment in the network is concern.

Having stated that, currently there is no recognized/Standardized method 
or mechanism in the case of which one of several lower precedence calls 
gets disconnected, where such a condition exists. Only such that the 
lowest level gets disconnected first. But if there are more than one such 
lower level call existing at a congested interface and a higher precedence 
call comes through, determining which lowest level call gets preempted 
first is left to the implementer.

An example, if there is a saturated interface with 6 equal bandwidth 
connections existing, 1 "Flash" call, 1 "Immediate" and 4 "Routine" calls, 
when another "Flash" level attempts to gain resources out that interface; 
if that new "Flash" call is the same bandwidth as the others (all are 


Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt              Page 10

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001

equal in this situation), then a "Routine" is preempted, being the lowest 
level on that interface. Which one is up to that vendor's product 
algorithm. MoIP might want to standardize this mechanism for consistency.

Who the preemption picks to get whacked is not defined within the 
requirements. So it's up to the implementers. My thought of a stateful 
timer assigned to each interface that picks either who is on the lowest 
level the shortest or longest gets it.

MLPP [1] also established the Alternative Party, and the Non-Preemptable 
Resources options. The Alternative Party option is a pre-configured to 
that phone-line secondary phone to ring in the times where the first phone 
is being used. This can prevent a preemption event, even when that new 
inbound MLPP call is of higher precedence. The Alternative Party must 
answer before the Timer T sub K expires. Additionally, a party of a phone 
can preset their phone with the option of 'Non-Preemptable Resources'. 
This prevents Access Preemption events, but does not prevent Network 
Preemption events.

The Alternative Party redirect MUST be to a valid domain address and is 
RECOMMENDED to a location which always answers the phone, such as a 
operator or ACD pool of personnel. An additional benefit to the Timer T 
sub K is that it prevents indefinite diversions when it expires for a 
call. The example below give this mechanism more clarity.


4.2.1 Access Preemption Event

The following is an example of the MLPP mandated process for Access-based 
Preemption events occur, similar to a flow chart:

  Scenario #1: Caller A and D are on an MLPP call when Caller C calls D

  If there is an existing call between two parties (A & D), and a third 
  party (C) calls into D (provided there is no congestion between C & D), 
  D (at the EOS) first checks the Precedence of this new inbound call. If 
  the Precedence value is equal to or less than that of the existing call 
  between D & A, then C either is returned a Disconnect (user busy), or is 
  diverted to an alternate party (another phone) if there is one speci-
  fied; C is Disconnect (Precedence Call Blocked indication) if one isn't 
  specified.

  If the MLPP call from C has a greater Precedence value than the A to D 
  call, then a determination is made at D (at the EOS) whether D is 
  Preemptable. If D is not Preemptable, then an alternate party is looked 
  for. If there is identified, the call is diverted. If it is not, C is 
  returned a Disconnect (Not Equipped for Preemption). If D is Preempt-
  able, the user and device of D is notified. So is the Device A. The 
  device at D is offered with Call Setup information, while also starting 
  the T sub K timer (defined as being between 4-30 seconds). A Disconnect 
  is sent to A now, placing it in the Idle state for at least the moment. 
  The device at D is waiting for the user at D to determine 1 of 3 
  possible paths to take:





Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt              Page 11

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001


  Path #1 is when nothing occurs until the T sub K timer expires. This 
  results in a determination if an alternate party was specified by D. If 
  there is, C is then connected to this alternate party. If not, C's call 
  is normally set-up into D.

  Path #2 is if there is a request from C to Clear the call. This results 
  in A, C, and D being idle now.

  Path #3 is when D acknowledges the inbound Preemption by C, thereby 
  accepting the call from C. This stops the T sub K timer. The Call is 
  set-up between C to D.


4.2.2 Network Preemption Event

The following is an example of the MLPP mandated process for Network-based 
Preemption events occur, similar to a flow chart:

  Scenario #2: Caller A and B are on an MLPP call when Caller C initiates 
  a higher precedence call to Caller D

  If there is an existing MLPP call between two parties (A & B), and an 
  unrelated MLPP call to either A or B has a higher Precedence level than 
  the A-B call, the network first checks to see if there are available 
  resources for that new call; if there is, everything works as if both 
  calls were on the same Precedence level with no congestion. But if there 
  is congestion at any common interface between the calls A to B and C to 
  D, there is now a search at that interface for Preemptable resources. If 
  there is not, a determination is made whether the Call from C is a 
  Precedence call. If the call from C is not, C is returned from the 
  network a "Disconnect: Network Resources Unavailable" indication. If the 
  call from C is a Precedence Call, C is returned a "Disconnect: 
  Precedence Call Blocked" indication. The call remains between A and B 
  through both cases.

  If, however, there are preemptable resources available at the shared 
  interface for calls A-B and C-D, with C-D having a higher Precedence 
  level than A-B, now A is notified of Preemption (without knowing where 
  from). At the same time B is notified of Preemption (also without 
  knowing where from. The network now releases (disconnects) the amount of 
  resources in order to have the C-D call be set-up normally.

Under this Network Preemption scenario within MLPP, the amount of 
resources necessary for this call C-D, even if it requires more than one 
other call to be preempted, MUST be made to satisfy the higher precedence 
call completion. All necessary lower Precedence level resources MUST be 
cleared for any higher Precedence Call.


4.3 MLPP Feature Scenarios

4.3.1 Bearer Services Supported

  MLPP [1] is applicable to the following circuit-mode bearer services: 



Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt              Page 12

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001


    o  Speech
    o  3.1kHz audio (video-band data), and 
    o  64kbps unrestricted data


4.3.2 Commonalities of Interest

The Commonalities of Interest (COI) scenario is a configuration within the 
MLPP Domain such that a limited group of users primarily call each other, 
and few others. This group shall have enhanced or reduced treatment of 
call attempts within their assigned group. This configuration has the 
choice of optionally allowing Higher Precedence calls specifically to 
another within the group, or this capability is not allow. Call detail 
recording shall record all Precedence call attempts from this type of 
group.


4.3.3 Conferences Preset

This is a preset configured list of attendees to a conference bridge 
identified by the number and key dialed at the originator's station. All 
EN, EOS, MFS shall be capable of simultaneously having 10 such conferences 
with up to 20 configured endstations for each conference. The ability to 
add up to 5 additional participants utilizing Hook-Flash by the initiator 
of the conference is permitted as well. Each conference shall have a 
Precedence level set by the originator of that conference bridge. 
Preemption shall occur as already specified û meaning, conferences bridges 
do not get preferential treatment beyond the precedence level the bridge 
is set to. 

A special condition exists within this functionality, if the originator of 
a conference is preempted, the preempt tone occurs for two seconds to all 
attendees, and then the bridge is disconnected to all. This includes those 
who were not, under other condition, subject to a preemption event.


5.0 MoIP Requirements and solutions

Based on the previous sections, requirements for what is mandatory and 
optional in any network to be MLPP compliant, here is an overview of the 
technologies that the IETF offers. What will be mentioned are how certain 
protocols shall and shall not be utilized to satisfy the MLPP require-
ments.

Although this is an Informational-Track document defining an Architecture, 
this section shall be written as if it was a Standards Track document with 
all the associated RFC2119 language mandating this SHALL occur, that SHALL 
NOT occur, and RECOMMENDED practices that are highly desirable if imple-
mented. This should give the reader a sense of the tone of this Archi-
tecture and what is needed to ensure it is as close to compliance as 
possible to the intent of MLPP.

Because MLPP is principally a symmetrical natured transport, meaning that 
traffic is bi-directional and typically almost identical in the number of 
packets traveling each direction, this document is for unicast traffic 


Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt              Page 13

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001

only. Multicast traffic in MoIP is to be defined at a later date once the 
case and need is presented to this document's author or if by chance this 
effort moves into a WG, and it becomes subject to that WG's consensus 
charter and directions.

MoIP can be broken into several areas of interest or specialization from 
an IETF perspective: Header Marking, Routing, Signaling and/or Call 
Control, and Media. A logical migration of MLPP into MoIP is migrate 
towards multimedia communications, while maintaining more or less a 
symmetrical communication service in nature. In other words, although now 
to include video, it shouldn't yet take on single-directional broadcasts 
of a video feed, whether live or recorded. A possibility comes to mind in 
High Priority announcements to a select few receivers. But this likely 
would include multicast transmissions as well, and that is outside the 
scope of this document in its current intent. 

Without losing focus on MLPP û that Standard [1&2] specifies two basic 
features for a communications session within a compliant Domain: 

    o Setting the Precedence level of each session upon 
      initiation of that session, and 

    o Recognizing congested interfaces and preempting 
      traffic for higher precedence traffic

5.1 Setting Priority to an MoIP Session

Presently there are three IETF-based mechanisms for Signaling or 
Controlling the Precedence/Priority end-to-end:

    o SIP (Standard)
    o MEGACO (Standard)
    o MGCP (Informational only)

Presently there exist two IETF-based mechanisms to set (not signal) 
Priority to a communications stream from end-to-end û with one more 
potentially coming:

    o Diffserv [3]
    o RSVP [10]
    o Potentially coming from the IETF: NSIS
    o others at layer 2

An additional mechanism exists for propagating preferential treatment of 
Packet flows, but more in a core-type environment: MPLS

5.2 SDP in MoIP

The extension of this protocol doesn't augment any function specifically 
for MoIP. This is specifically for session capabilities exchange nego-
tiation. A domain is either MoIP compliant or not. Little is negotiated, 
especially at the level.






Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt              Page 14

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001

5.3 SIP in MoIP

The Session Initiation Protocol (SIP) [6] "is an application-layer control 
(signaling) protocol for creating, modifying and terminating sessions with 
one or more participants. These sessions include Internet multimedia 
conferences, Internet telephone calls and multimedia distribution."

As a Signaling Protocol, this is an ideal candidate for conveying the 
Precedence level from the Calling party to the Called party. In SIP 
language, one UA includes a Request, General or Requires Header-Field in 
the initial INVITE message to that second (or more) UA(s). The existing 
Priority Header-Field is for receiver information only, so a new header-
Field is needed. This header-Field can't be a Requires Header-Field, as 
SIP UA's will call outside the MoIP domain, and this header-Field might 
not be supported, causing either an error or confusion. Either of which is 
not good for successful communications. It can be either a Request Header-
Field with a Response Header-Field returned from the far-end UA, or a 
General Header-Field, in which the far-end UA replicates the Header-Field 
in the reply. 

An Internet Draft has been submitted for this new Header-Field called 
Resource Priority Header [15]. This ID is not a WG item within the SIP 
(it was just submitted). However, it matches the RFC 791 [5] and MLPP 
Precedence levels with one additional level: "Critical/Emergency Call 
Priority" (CRITIC/ECP), which is in [5]. This new level is specifically 
for situations such as 9/11/01 for Government level Emergency Preparedness 
and Response [16]. However, no MoIP users shall have the ability to access 
this higher CRITIC/ECP level unless they go through the procedures that 
all other authorized personnel do when access this Preferential communi-
cations service. The network treatment of such a communication set-up is 
outside the scope of this document for now.

This new ID is specifically written loosely for wide appeal. Here, once 
that document becomes a Working Group Item officially (then RFC) it shall 
have much more stringent language here to strengthen what it will do in 
MoIP domains. More on this is coming versions of both documents.

Under the SIP Signaling model for MoIP communications, the Proxy Servers 
[6] SHOULD be the policers or filters of the SIP signaling packets within 
the MoIP domain. Redirect Servers [6] can also perform this function.

It's unclear in the MoIP domain whether SIP Registrar Servers [6] will 
have as much control as most believe. Registrar Servers aren't required in 
order to have SIP communications. Their intent was originally for Mobil-
ity, but that has was a lost belief in the SIP community for quite some 
time, until recently when Dean Willis stated that, as WG Co-Chair, the 
Registrar Server ought to be renamed to be clearer to its intent from 
inception of SIP. Again, further revisions of this document will have 
updates to this sub-item.

Just as with MLPP, it's true with MoIP using SIP: Precedence levels are 
set at session initiation and CANNOT be altered during a session. Addi-
tionally, the last Precedence level requested for a session does NOT reset 
the UA's default to that new level û the Precedence level MUST start at 
default without user intervention at "Routine".



Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt              Page 15

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001


The exceptions within the IP world are obviously when taking advantage of 
what the circuit-switched world can't do: Determine who is making the 
session request. Modern user authentication mechanisms can verify who is 
making the call or information transfer. In such cases, with MoIP domain 
administrator's permission, the default Precedence level should be allowed 
to be user authorized and selected. Future versions of this document will 
likely have this topic broken out into its own section for thorough 
analysis.

SIP UA's MUST allow Access Preemption to occur in MoIP networks. Addi-
tionally, SIP MUST implement Alternative Party redirect (REFER Method); 
but this might be one option of many ways of doing this function.

Conference Bridge Applications could be accomplished through a Proxy 
initiated INVITE to all parties of that bridge. The list of attendees 
could be dynamically set up with a Third Party interface into that Proxy 
Server, with the Precedence level of all sessions set at that time prior, 
and by an authenticated originator. A mixer can also receive an INVITE for 
voice mixing instead of having a UA end device do all this function.


5.4 MEGACO in MoIP

MEGACO as defined in [9] is a Media Gateway Control Protocol. It consists 
of two major parts: Media Gateways (MG) and the Media Gateway Controller 
(MGC).

Media Gateways translate signals from one type of network to another type 
of network. Both interfaces don't know about the other. In fact, the Gate-
way makes the experience such that both end devices don't know theyÆre 
communicating outside of their native protocol, whatever that might be: 
IP, TDM, Audio, Carrier wave, Analog circuitry, ISDN, Digital Trunks, RF 
frequency... anything to anything, as long as that Gateway is built for 
that.

Media Gateway Controllers control the Media Gateways. The intention of 
MEGACO (and MGCP, which is the next section) is to have fair dumb end-
stations and very smart Servers being the brains for those endstations, 
or Terminations.

MEGACO has 8 Primitives or commands:

    Add: Adds a termination (an endpoint)
    Modify: Modifies the properties of a termination
    Subtract: Subtracts or disconnects a termination
    Move: Moves a termination to another context
    AuditValue: Returns the current values of properties, events, 
                signals and statistics 
    AuditCapabilities: Returns the possible values of properties, 
                       events, signals and statistics
    Notify: Allows the media gateway to notify the MGC of events 
            within MG
    ServiceChange: Allows MG to inform MGC it is going in or out 
                   of service



Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt              Page 16

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001


MEGACO MUST allow Access Preemption to occur in MoIP networks. Addi-
tionally, MEGACO MUST implement Alternative Party redirect; but this 
might be one option of many ways of doing this function.

Conference Bridge Applications could be accomplished through the MGC to 
all parties of that bridge. The list of attendees and the DSP doing the 
mixing could be dynamically set up with a Third Party interface into that 
MGC, with the Precedence level of all sessions set at that time prior, and 
by an authenticated originator (maybe through a Web interface app).

Further investigation is needed to ensure MEGACO has the existing mecha-
nisms for MoIP.


5.5 MGCP for MoIP

MGCP [8] is also a Media Gateway Control Protocol, but one that isn't 
Standardized within the IETF, or anywhere. It is, however, deployed in a 
wide range of vendor solutions û significantly more so than MEGACO. This 
is as much to do with the timing of the Protocol û it was first to the 
field, by more than a year. That kind of a head start in the VoIP 
intensive explosion weÆre just starting can put a protocol out in the 
market lead for a long time as a Defacto Standard.

MGCP is rooted in the combination of IPDC from Level 3 Corporation and 
SGCP from Bellcore. It has 8 primitives as well as MEGACO:

  EndpointConfiguration (EPCF): Instructs gateway about coding char-
                           acteristics of 'line-side' of the endpoint
  NotificationRequest (RQNT): Instructs the Gateway to watch for 
                           specific events
  Notify (NTFY):           Inform CA when requested events occur
  CreateConnection (CRCX): Create a connection to an "Endpoint" inside 
                           the Gateway
  ModifyConnection (MDCX): Change the parameters associated with an 
                           established connection
  DeleteConnection (DLCX): Delete an existing connectionùAck returns 
                           call statistics
  AuditEndPoint (AUEP) and AuditConnection (AUCX): Audit the status of
                           an "endpoint" and any connections associated
  RestartInProgresss (RSIP):  Notifies the CA an endpoint (or group of 
                           endpoints) is taken out of service
MGCP MUST allow Access Preemption to occur in MoIP networks. Addi-
tionally, MGCP MUST implement Alternative Party redirect; but this 
might be one option of many ways of doing this function.

Conference Bridge Applications could be accomplished through the MGC to 
all parties of that bridge. The list of attendees and the DSP doing the 
mixing could be dynamically set up with a Third Party interface into that 
MGC, with the Precedence level of all sessions set at that time prior, and 
by an authenticated originator (maybe through a Web interface app).

Further investigation is needed to ensure MGCP has the existing mechanisms 
for MoIP.


Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt              Page 17

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001



5.6 Differentiated Services in MoIP

[3] was created to provide this in a packet forwarding mode. This involved 
creating a new function by obsoleting the first 6 bits of the old Type of 
Service Byte in the IPv4 Header [5]. This new function focused purely on 
the Router's forwarding queue and defining behaviors for packets marked a 
certain way (with a certain value), and leaving other packet mark values 
up to the local administrator to determine the behavior through that 
administrator's infrastructure. That's the rub with Diffserv as a primary 
mechanism for Precedence level marking of packets in MoIP. [3] states 
clearly that packets are marked at the edge of boundary of a Diffserv 
Domain with what those authors called an Edge Router. If properly policed, 
this ensured proper forwarding and traffic engineering within that domain. 
Diffserv has no session awareness, so Preemption of an entire session 
would be clearly impossible based solely on this packet marking mechanism. 
Diffserv should be utilized in packet forwarding, but another problem 
arises when any packet leaves domain û it gets remarked by that next 
domain's Edge Routers. This occurs at will and often today.

Current practice has most implementers of VoIP utilizing DSCP 101110 for 
EF [12]. This mandates not packet shall precede an EF marked packet in the 
forwarding queue of a Router other than an other EF marked packet which 
got into the queue before it. MoIP requires a distinction and a difference 
in the treatment of packets from one another by session, not application. 
Diffserv prioritizes packets, not sessions, in fact has no session 
awareness û therefore lack the preemption capability within it of while 
using it.

Perhaps a well thought out AF [13] DSCP marking where nothing is marked 
EF within the entire domain. This has tremendous potential due the drop 
characteristics of the AF classes if thoroughly maintained and policed 
within a domain û which will be daunting at best. AF has the ability to 
drop packets in any of the 12 queues at predictable rates while not termi-
nating the sessions. Although AF wasn't intended to be used a 12 consecu-
tive queues, but as classes of up to 3 (AF11, AF12 and AF13 for 
example). Below is the chart from [13] detailing the codepoint markings 
and packet drop characteristics per class:

   The RECOMMENDED values of the AF codepoints are as follows: AF11 = '
   001010', AF12 = '001100', AF13 = '001110', AF21 = '010010', AF22 = '
   010100', AF23 = '010110', AF31 = '011010', AF32 = '011100', AF33 = '
   011110', AF41 = '100010', AF42 = '100100', and AF43 = '100110'.  The
   table below summarizes the recommended AF codepoint values.

                        Class 1    Class 2    Class 3    Class 4
                      +----------+----------+----------+----------+
     Low Drop Prec    |  001010  |  010010  |  011010  |  100010  |
     Medium Drop Prec |  001100  |  010100  |  011100  |  100100  |
     High Drop Prec   |  001110  |  010110  |  011110  |  100110  |
                      +----------+----------+----------+----------+






Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt              Page 18

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001

The AF groupings AF1X, AF2X, AF3X and AF4X are separate classes that are 
not defined to in order relative to each other. The behavior or treatment 
definition is within each class. 

Two AF classes could be used within a single MoIP Domain that MUST NOT 
have EF marked for Multimedia can appropriately build a L3 MoIP behavior 
within a Single Building, Campus or Base. Mapping this AF Behavior 
Aggregate (AF BA) properly to MPLS Label Switch Path (LSP) could extend 
this Preferential Treatment functionality desired in MoIP on a wider scale 
[28]. The AF DSCP value MUST be set by the Precedence level Request within 
the SIP INVITE with the Resource Header, or conveyed by the MGC in either 
MEGACO or MGCP.

In VoIP, but not data transfers, packets can be dropped without loosing a 
session, and the degradation will increase as the congestion gets worse, 
but the session will stay up with more like bad Cell phone quality instead 
of Toll Quality. If communications is important and quality not so import-
ant, this is a viable option if the session awareness is solved for full 
preemption in cases of need.

Filtering out EF at layer 3 is harsh and ugly, but might be necessary in a 
complementary role with other mechanisms and protocols in MoIP.

5.7 RSVP in MoIP

RSVP [10] in concept has most of what MoIP requires, but few are adopting 
it in the end device. The end device determines the bandwidth necessary 
for a bi-directional communication stream and sends a PATH packet out to 
the destination device communicating with all supporting internetworking 
devices along the way. The destination device would answer the request 
packet with a RESV message, with the internetworking devices all along the 
way clearing the bandwidth (if available) for end-to-end communications at 
a fixed bandwidth. It has a policy co-worker, for lack of a better way of 
putting it, in COPS or Common Open Policy Service [11] with a defined 
mechanism for Preemption priority policy element in [25].

Most of the hits against RSVP are regarding Mobility (or lack of support 
of), no End-to-Edge reservations and the one consistent hit RSVP has taken 
is it's heavyweight nature of implementation. In other words, it's hard to 
code û especially in smaller devices like IP Phones which MoIP must 
support. NSIS is supposed to be a new WG forming for this reason.

RSVP does lack one feature that's minimally utilized: Look ahead For Busy 
(LFB) to ensure that a path between two devices is available for a call in 
the future.


5.8 NSIS in MoIP

"Next Steps in Switching" is a proposed WG within the IETF to potentially 
solve some of the deficiencies of RSVP while taking advantage of its 
strengths. Many Internet Drafts exist already within that effort. [26] 
references specifically RSVP and why it should be modified. More on this 
effort will be in the next version of this draft




Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt              Page 19

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001


5.9 MPLS in MoIP

The MPLS concept assigns short fixed length labels to packets at the 
ingress to an MPLS cloud to identify a Forwarding Equivalence Class (FEC) 
[4]. This ingress is called a Label Switch Router. Throughout the MPLS 
cloud or domain, the labels attached to packets are used to make for-
warding decisions [27]. 

"MPLS protection" is defined in [28] as 
   Because MPLS is path-oriented it can potentially provide faster and
   more predictable protection and restoration capabilities in the face
   of topology changes than conventional hop by hop routed IP systems."

MPLS is not intended for a campus solution û which a Base would most 
categorically fall into. The use of AF BA's mentioned previously, mapped 
to the LSP's of MPLS at the ingress LSR, with MPLS Protection (above) 
would at this time like provide the clearest solution for MoIP.

In MoIP where MPLS is utilized, a FEC MUST be set up in all LSR's for each 
Precedence level and the CRITIC/ECP level. This will allow proper mapping 
of Precedence levels to AF BA's (when chosen as well) within the campus or 
Base infrastructure, and on to the MPLS Cloud in between Bases in the core 
of the DSN network that is MoIP compliant. If the EF DSCP is utilized as 
well, regardless of the reason, a separate LSP SHALL exist in all LSR's 
for it as well.

If RSVP is utilized in the Campus or Base level, [27] describes tunnels in 
MPLS, which can be mapped to RSVP Paths from [29]. If such a case, all 
packets could and should have the EF DSCP.


5.10 RTP for MoIP

Media Payload shall be provided with Real-Time Protocol [7] for voice, 
video and real-time collaboration. RTP requires little adjusting or 
extending other than the possibility of marking the RTP Headers with the 
matching precedence level that was Signaled by the Signaling or Control 
Protocol exchange between end devices. An Internet Draft has been 
introduced for this RTP extension [14] in the AVT WG. This ID also has the 
6th Precedence Level CRITIC/ECP for the GETS communications Service [16]. 
Little else is evident that RTP needs to further support MoIP.


5.11 Gateway Requirements Regardless of Protocol

Regardless of the Signaling or Control Protocol used within the MoIP 
Domain, IP-to-MLPP signaling MUST adhere to the MLPP requirements set 
forth in [1,2,17,18,19] regardless of what L2 technology is utilized on 
either side or both. There will likely be islands of MoIP connecting to 
the existing MLPP network. This translation MUST be seamless to the 
network elements and MUST be seamless to the users on either end of a 
communications session/call.

This MUST include the transparent signaling of the Precedence level set on 
one side of the Gateway to the other side with no alterations when the 


Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt              Page 20

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001

Gateway in between MLPP and MoIP network. When the Gateway is communi-
cating with a MOM-MLPP network, the MoIP administrator can chose what 
ingress Precedence Level those calls should be set to. Default should be 
"Routine"; but there might a certain dialed in circuit translates to a 
certain Precedence Level situation.


6.0 IANA Considerations

There are no IANA considerations with this document


7.0 Security Considerations

It's obvious when a mechanism is utilized for preempted one traffic flow 
over another, it has security considerations. However, this document is a 
combination document mandating the watchful control by Government hired 
employees that are already overseeing an identical network in concept û so 
the transition to IP from a oversight position shouldn't be too different. 
That said, misuse of preemption is a concern, even when limited to a 
single domain, albeit a large one.


8.0 Changes since last version  

Increased the requirements of MLPP network compliance.

Broke out the involved IETF Protocols for clarity and analysis of how 
each function with regard to MoIP requirements.

Added MPLS for Domain Core analysis.

Added a Gateway Requirements section for the transition between MLPP and 
MoIP networks.

Added the references to the Internet Drafts that are currently active 
attempting to extend which Protocols and procedures are necessary for 
enabling IP to meet the requirements of an MoIP network.


9.0 Acknowledgements

To Brian Rosen for encouragement and motivation. To Captain Gordon Bradley 
(Can. AF) for his aid in gathering the information and scope of this 
effort.


10.0 References

 [1] ANSI specification ANSI T1.619-1992.

 [2] ANSI specification ANSI T1.619A-1994.

 [3] RFC 2475 "An Architecture for Differentiated Service", S. Blake, D. 
Black, M. Carlson, E. Davies, Z. Wang, W. Weiss, December 1998



Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt              Page 21

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001


 [4] RFC 3031 "Multiprotocol Label Switching Architecture", E. Rosen, D. 
Tappan, G. Fedorkow, Y. Rekhter, D. Farinacci, T. Li, A. Conta, January 
2001

 [5] RFC 791 "Internet Protocol", J. Postel, Sept 1981

 [6] RFC 2543, "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol", M. Handley, H. 
Schulzrinne, E. Schooler, J. Rosenberg  March 1999

 [7] RFC 1889 "RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time Applications", H. 
Schulzrinne, S. Casner, R. Frederick, V. Jacobson, January 1996

 [8] RFC 2705 "Media Gateway Control Protocol(MGCP) Version 1.0", M. 
Arango, A. Dugan, I. Elliott, C. Huitema, S. Pickett, October 1999

 [9] RFC 3015 "MEGACO Protocol Version 1.0", F. Cuervo, N. Greene, A. 
Rayhan, C. Huitema, B. Rosen, J. Segers, November 2000

 [10] RFC 2205 "Resource ReSerVation Protocol (RSVP) -- Version 1, 
Functional Specification", R. Ed. Braden, L. Zhang, S. Estrin, S. Herzog, 
and S. Jamin, September 1997.

 [11] RFC 2748 "The COPS (Common Open Policy Service) Protocol" D. 
Durham, J. Boyle, R. Cohen, S. Herzog, R. Rajan, A. Sastry, January 2000

 [12] RFC 2598 "An Expedited Forwarding PHB" RFC 2598, V. Jacobson, K. 
Nichols, K. Poduri, June 1999

 [13] RFC 2597 "Assured Forwarding PHB Group", J. Heinanen, F. Baker, W. 
Weiss, J. Wroclawski, June 1999

 [14] "draft-polk-avt-rtpext-res-pri-00.txt" IETF Internet Draft, J. Polk, 
November, 2001. Work in Progress

 [15] "draft-polk-sip-resource-00.txt", J. Polk, H. Schulzrinne IETF 
Internet Draft, November, 2001. Work in Progress

 [16] "Framework for supporting IEPS in IP telephony",  K. Carlberg and 
I. Brown, IETF Internet Draft, Oct. 2001. Work in Progress

 [17] "Generic Switching Center Requirements" (GSCR), JIEO Technical 
Report 8249, March 1997

 [18] Defense Switched Network "Generic Switching Test Plan" (GSTP), June 
1999

 [19] ITU-T Recommendation Q.735.3 (1993), "Description for Community of 
Interest Supplementary Services using SS7 - Multilevel precedence and 
preemption"

 [20] "draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-00.txt", IETF Internet Draft, J. Polk, Feb 
2001. Work in Progress

 [21] ANSI T1.604-1990 "Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN)"



Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt              Page 22

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001

 [22] ANSI T1.113-1988 "Signaling System Number 7 (SS7) û ISDN User Part"

 [23] ANSI T1.604-1990 "ISDN û Layer 3 Signaling Specification for 
Circuit-Switched Bearer service for Digital Subscriber System Number 1 
(DSS1)"

 [24] ANSI T1.610-1990 "DSS1 û Generic Procedures for the Control of ISDN 
Supplementary Services"

 [25] RFC 3181 "Signaled Preemption Priority Policy Element" S. Herzog, 
Oct 2001

 [26] "draft-greis-rsvp-analysis-00.txt" IETF Internet Draft, M. Greis, 
Nov 2001. Work in Progress

 [27] RFC 2702 "Requirements for Traffic Engineering Over MPLS", D. 
Awduche, J. Malcolm, J. Agogbua, M. O'Dell, J. McManus, September 1999. 
Work in Progress

 [28] "draft-ietf-mpls-diff-ext-09.txt", F. Le Faucheur, L. Wu, B. Davie, 
S. Davari, P. Vaananen, R. Krishnan, P. Cheval, J. Heinanen, April, 2001. 
Work in Progress

 [29] "draft-ietf-mpls-rsvp-lsp-tunnel-09.txt", D. Awduche, L. Berger, D. 
Gan, T. Li, V. Srinivasan, G. Swallow, August 2001. Work in Progress


11.0 Author Information

James M. Polk
Cisco Systems
2200 East President George Bush Turnpike
Richardson, Texas 75082 USA
jmpolk@cisco.com




"Copyright (C) The Internet Society (February 23rd, 2001). 
All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to 
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or 
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and 
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind, 
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included 
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself 
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice 
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations, 
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in 
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet 
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into 
languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be re-
voked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.


Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt              Page 23

Internet Draft                MLPP over IP                Nov 21st, 2001


This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS 
IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK 
FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT 
LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT 
INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."




The Expiration date for this Internet Draft is:

May 22nd, 2002











































Polk                 draft-polk-mlpp-over-ip-01.txt              Page 24
