
draft                  Parallel-printer-like MIB             26 May 1994


                       Parallel-printer-like MIB

                              26 May 1994


                              Bob Stewart
                              Xyplex, Inc.
                        rlstewart@eng.xyplex.com


                    <draft-ietf-charmib-ppl-mib-02.txt>


                          Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet Draft.  Internet Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its Areas, and
its Working Groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet Drafts.

Internet Drafts are valid for a maximum of six months and may be
updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any time.  It is
inappropriate to use Internet Drafts as reference material or to cite
them other than as a "work in progress".


























Expires 26 November 1994                                        [Page 1]





draft                  Parallel-printer-like MIB             26 May 1994


1.  Introduction

This memo defines an extension to the Management Information Base (MIB)
for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for the management of Parallel-printer-
like devices.












































Expires 26 November 1994                                        [Page 2]





draft                  Parallel-printer-like MIB             26 May 1994


2.  The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework

The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework consists of four major
components.  They are:

o    RFC 1442 [1] which defines the SMI, the mechanisms used for
     describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.

o    STD 17, RFC 1213 [2] defines MIB-II, the core set of managed
     objects for the Internet suite of protocols.

o    RFC 1445 [3] which defines the administrative and other
     architectural aspects of the framework.

o    RFC 1448 [4] which defines the protocol used for network access to
     managed objects.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.


2.1.  Object Definitions

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) defined in the
SMI.  In particular, each object object type is named by an OBJECT
IDENTIFIER, an administratively assigned name.  The object type together
with an object instance serves to uniquely identify a specific
instantiation of the object.  For human convenience, we often use a
textual string, termed the descriptor, to refer to the object type.



















Expires 26 November 1994                                        [Page 3]





draft                  Parallel-printer-like MIB             26 May 1994


3.  Overview

The Parallel-printer-like Hardware Device MIB applies to interface ports
that would most probably support the Character MIB.  The most common
example is Centronics-like printer port.

The Parallel-printer-like Hardware Device MIB is mandatory for all
systems that have such a hardware port supporting services managed
through some other MIB.

The Parallel-printer-like Hardware Port MIB includes Centronics-like and
Data-Products-like parallel physical links with a similar set of control
signals.

The MIB contains objects that relate to physical layer connections.

The MIB comprises one base object and three tables, detailed in the
following sections.  The tables contain objects for ports and input and
output control signals.


3.1.  Relationship to Interface MIB

The Parallel-printer-like MIB is one of many MIBs designed for layered
use as described in the Interface MIB [5].  In most implementations
where it is present, it will be in the lowest interface sublayer, that
is, the Parallel-printer-like MIB represents the physical layer,
providing service to higher layers such as the Character MIB [6].

Although it is unlikely that a parallel printer port will actually be
used as a network interface, which is the intent of the Interface MIB,
the Parallel-printer-like MIB is closely connected to the Character MIB,
which can share hardware interfaces with network operation, and relate
to the RS-232 MIB [7].

The Interface MIB's ifTestTable and ifRcvAddressTable are not relevant
to the Parallel-printer-like MIB.

The Parallel-printer-like MIB is relevant for ifType values para(34) and
perhaps others.

The Parallel-printer-like MIB requires the conformance groups
ifGeneralGroup, and ifFixedLengthGroup.

Usefulness of error counters in this MIB depends on the octet counters





Expires 26 November 1994                                        [Page 4]





draft                  Parallel-printer-like MIB             26 May 1994


in ifFixedLengthGroup.

















































Expires 26 November 1994                                        [Page 5]





draft                  Parallel-printer-like MIB             26 May 1994


4.  Definitions

PARALLEL-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, NOTIFICATION-TYPE,
    Counter32, Integer32
        FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    InterfaceIndex
        FROM IF-MIB
    transmission
        FROM RFC1213-MIB
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP
        FROM SNMPv2-CONF;


para MODULE-IDENTITY
     LAST-UPDATED "9405261700Z"
     ORGANIZATION "IETF Character MIB Working Group"
     CONTACT-INFO
            "        Bob Stewart
             Postal: Xyplex, Inc.
                     295 Foster Street
                     Littleton, MA 01460

                Tel: 508-952-4816
                Fax: 508-952-4887
             E-mail: rlstewart@eng.xyplex.com"
     DESCRIPTION
            "The MIB module for Parallel-printer-like hardware devices."
    ::= { transmission 34 }



















Expires 26 November 1994                                        [Page 6]





draft                  Parallel-printer-like MIB             26 May 1994


-- Generic Parallel-printer-like information

paraNumber OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of ports (regardless of their current
        state) in the Parallel-printer-like port table."
    ::= { para 1 }


-- the Parallel-printer-like Port table

paraPortTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF ParaPortEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A list of port entries.  The number of entries is
        given by the value of paraNumber."
    ::= { para 2 }

paraPortEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX ParaPortEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Status and parameter values for a port."
    INDEX { paraPortIndex }
    ::= { paraPortTable 1 }

ParaPortEntry ::=
    SEQUENCE {
        paraPortIndex
            InterfaceIndex,
        paraPortType
            INTEGER,
        paraPortInSigNumber
            Integer32,
        paraPortOutSigNumber
            Integer32
    }

paraPortIndex OBJECT-TYPE





Expires 26 November 1994                                        [Page 7]





draft                  Parallel-printer-like MIB             26 May 1994


    SYNTAX InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value of ifIndex for the port.  By convention
        and if possible, hardware port numbers map directly
        to external connectors.  The value for each port must
        remain constant at least from one re-initialization
        of the network management agent to the next."
    ::= { paraPortEntry 1 }

paraPortType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX INTEGER {
        other(1),
        centronics(2),
        dataproducts(3)
    }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The port's hardware type."
    ::= { paraPortEntry 2 }

paraPortInSigNumber OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of input signals for the port in the
        input signal table (paraPortInSigTable).  The table
        contains entries only for those signals the software
        can detect and that are useful to observe."
    ::= { paraPortEntry 3 }

paraPortOutSigNumber OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of output signals for the port in the
        output signal table (paraPortOutSigTable).  The
        table contains entries only for those signals the
        software can assert and that are useful to observe."
    ::= { paraPortEntry 4 }






Expires 26 November 1994                                        [Page 8]





draft                  Parallel-printer-like MIB             26 May 1994


-- Parallel-printer-like Input Signal Table

paraInSigTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF ParaInSigEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A list of port input control signal entries."
    ::= { para 3 }

paraInSigEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX ParaInSigEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Input control signal status for a hardware port."
    INDEX { paraInSigPortIndex, paraInSigName }
    ::= { paraInSigTable 1 }

ParaInSigEntry ::=
    SEQUENCE {
        paraInSigPortIndex
            InterfaceIndex,
        paraInSigName
            INTEGER,
        paraInSigState
            INTEGER,
        paraInSigChanges
            Counter32
    }

paraInSigPortIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value of paraPortIndex for the port to which
        this entry belongs."
    ::= { paraInSigEntry 1 }

paraInSigName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX INTEGER { power(1), online(2), busy(3),
                     paperout(4), fault(5) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current





Expires 26 November 1994                                        [Page 9]





draft                  Parallel-printer-like MIB             26 May 1994


    DESCRIPTION
        "Identification of a hardware signal."
    ::= { paraInSigEntry 2 }

paraInSigState OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX INTEGER { none(1), on(2), off(3) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The current signal state."
    ::= { paraInSigEntry 3 }

paraInSigChanges OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the signal has changed from
        'on' to 'off' or from 'off' to 'on'."
    ::= { paraInSigEntry 4 }






























Expires 26 November 1994                                       [Page 10]





draft                  Parallel-printer-like MIB             26 May 1994


-- Output Signal Table

paraOutSigTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF ParaOutSigEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A list of port output control signal entries."
    ::= { para 4 }

paraOutSigEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX ParaOutSigEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Output control signal status for a hardware port."
    INDEX { paraOutSigPortIndex, paraOutSigName }
    ::= { paraOutSigTable 1 }

ParaOutSigEntry ::=
    SEQUENCE {
        paraOutSigPortIndex
            InterfaceIndex,
        paraOutSigName
            INTEGER,
        paraOutSigState
            INTEGER,
        paraOutSigChanges
            Counter32
    }

paraOutSigPortIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value of paraPortIndex for the port to which
        this entry belongs."
    ::= { paraOutSigEntry 1 }

paraOutSigName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX INTEGER { power(1), online(2), busy(3),
                     paperout(4), fault(5) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current





Expires 26 November 1994                                       [Page 11]





draft                  Parallel-printer-like MIB             26 May 1994


    DESCRIPTION
        "Identification of a hardware signal."
    ::= { paraOutSigEntry 2 }

paraOutSigState OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX INTEGER { none(1), on(2), off(3) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The current signal state."
    ::= { paraOutSigEntry 3 }

paraOutSigChanges OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the signal has changed from
        'on' to 'off' or from 'off' to 'on'."
    ::= { paraOutSigEntry 4 }






























Expires 26 November 1994                                       [Page 12]





draft                  Parallel-printer-like MIB             26 May 1994


-- conformance information

paraConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { para 5 }

paraGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { paraConformance 1 }
paraCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { paraConformance 2 }


-- compliance statements

paraCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for SNMPv2 entities
            which have Parallel-printer-like hardware
            interfaces."

    MODULE  -- this module
        MANDATORY-GROUPS { paraGroup }
    ::= { paraCompliances 1 }






























Expires 26 November 1994                                       [Page 13]





draft                  Parallel-printer-like MIB             26 May 1994


-- units of conformance

paraGroup    OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { paraNumber, paraPortIndex, paraPortType,
              paraPortInSigNumber, paraPortOutSigNumber,
              paraInSigPortIndex, paraInSigName,
              paraInSigState, paraInSigChanges,
              paraOutSigPortIndex, paraOutSigName,
              paraOutSigState, paraOutSigChanges }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects providing information
             applicable to all Parallel-printer-like interfaces."
    ::= { paraGroups 1 }

END


































Expires 26 November 1994                                       [Page 14]





draft                  Parallel-printer-like MIB             26 May 1994


5.  Acknowledgements

This memo was produced by the IETF Character MIB Working Group.















































Expires 26 November 1994                                       [Page 15]





draft                  Parallel-printer-like MIB             26 May 1994


6.  References

[1]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Structure
     of Management Information for version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1442, SNMP Research,Inc., Hughes
     LAN Systems, Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., Carnegie Mellon
     University, April 1993.

[2]  McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II", STD 17,
     RFC 1213, Hughes LAN Systems, Performance Systems International,
     March 1991.

[3]  Galvin, J., and K. McCloghrie, "Administrative Model for version 2
     of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1445,
     Trusted Information Systems, Hughes LAN Systems, April 1993.

[4]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Protocol
     Operations for version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1448, SNMP Research,Inc., Hughes LAN Systems, Dover
     Beach Consulting, Inc., Carnegie Mellon University, April 1993.

[5]  McCloghrie, K., and F.J. Kastenholz, "Evolution of the Interfaces
     Group of MIB-II", RFC 1573, Hughes LAN Systems, FTP Software,
     January 1994.


[6]  Stewart, B., "Definitions of Managed Objects for Character Stream
     Devices", RFC ????, Xyplex, Inc., ?Mon?, 1994.


[7]  Stewart, B., "Definitions of Managed Objects for RS-232-like
     Devices", RFC ????, Xyplex, Inc.,

















Expires 26 November 1994                                       [Page 16]





draft                  Parallel-printer-like MIB             26 May 1994


7.  Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.


8.  Author's Address

     Bob Stewart
     Xyplex, Inc.
     295 Foster Street
     Littleton, MA 01460

                     Tel: 508-952-4816
                     Fax: 508-952-4887
                  E-mail: rlstewart@eng.xyplex.com

     Phone: 508-952-4816
     Email: rlstewart@eng.xyplex.com
































Expires 26 November 1994                                       [Page 17]





draft                  Parallel-printer-like MIB             26 May 1994


Table of Contents


1 Introduction ....................................................    2
2 The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework .........................    3
2.1 Object Definitions ............................................    3
3 Overview ........................................................    4
3.1 Relationship to Interface MIB .................................    4
4 Definitions .....................................................    6
5 Acknowledgements ................................................   15
6 References ......................................................   16
7 Security Considerations .........................................   17
8 Author's Address ................................................   17





































Expires 26 November 1994                                       [Page 18]

