




Internet Draft               FTP Client MIB             16 November 1998


                             FTP Client MIB

                            16 November 1998

                  draft-stewart-ftp-client-mib-00.txt

                              Bob Stewart
                          Cisco Systems, Inc.
                           bstewart@cisco.com





                          Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

To view the entire list of current Internet-Drafts, please check the
"1id-abstracts.txt" listing contained in the Internet-Drafts Shadow
Directories on ftp.is.co.za (Africa), ftp.nordu.net (Northern Europe),
ftp.nis.garr.it (Southern Europe), munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim),
ftp.ietf.org (US East Coast), or ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast).

Distribution of this document is unlimited. Please send comments to the
author or one of the IETF Area Directors for Operations and Management:
Harald Alvestrand <Harald.Alvestrand@maxware.no> and Bert Wijnen
<wijnen@vnet.ibm.com>.


Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1998).  All Rights Reserved.









Expires 16 November 1998+6 months                               [Page 1]





Internet Draft               FTP Client MIB             16 November 1998


1.  Abstract

This memo defines an enterprise portion of the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in the Internet
community.  In particular, it describes managed objects used for
managing the transfer of files as an FTP client.

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.


2.  The SNMP Management Framework

The SNMP Management Framework presently consists of five major
components:

    o   An overall architecture, described in RFC 2271 [1].

    o   Mechanisms for describing and naming objects and events for the
        purpose of management. The first version of this Structure of
        Management Information (SMI) is called SMIv1 and described in
        RFC 1155 [2], RFC 1212 [3] and RFC 1215 [4]. The second version,
        called SMIv2, is described in RFC 1902 [5], RFC 1903 [6] and RFC
        1904 [7].

    o   Message protocols for transferring management information. The
        first version of the SNMP message protocol is called SNMPv1 and
        described in RFC 1157 [8]. A second version of the SNMP message
        protocol, which is not an Internet standards track protocol, is
        called SNMPv2c and described in RFC 1901 [9] and RFC 1906 [10].
        The third version of the message protocol is called SNMPv3 and
        described in RFC 1906 [10], RFC 2272 [11] and RFC 2274 [12].

    o   Protocol operations for accessing management information. The
        first set of protocol operations and associated PDU formats is
        described in RFC 1157 [8]. A second set of protocol operations
        and associated PDU formats is described in RFC 1905 [13].

    o   A set of fundamental applications described in RFC 2273 [14] and
        the view-based access control mechanism described in RFC 2275
        [15].

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined





Expires 16 November 1998+6 months                               [Page 2]





Internet Draft               FTP Client MIB             16 November 1998


using the mechanisms defined in the SMI.

This memo specifies a MIB module that is compliant to the SMIv2. A MIB
conforming to the SMIv1 can be produced through the appropriate
translations. The resulting translated MIB must be semantically
equivalent, except where objects or events are omitted because no
translation is possible (use of Counter64). Some machine readable
information in SMIv2 will be converted into textual descriptions in
SMIv1 during the translation process. However, this loss of machine
readable information is not considered to change the semantics of the
MIB.







































Expires 16 November 1998+6 months                               [Page 3]





Internet Draft               FTP Client MIB             16 November 1998


3.  Overview

The FTP Client MIB represents a simple application for initiating a file
transfer as an FTP client.  The advantage of acting as an FTP client
instead of server is that clients need not represent a structured file
system with users and passwords.  The MIB exploits that advantage as
well as offering the ability to initiate a transfer on demand to any
available FTP server.

Although the FTP Client MIB is of general utility, its original purpose
is as a companion to the Bulk File MIB [16] to act as the remote
transfer mechanism for an ephemeral file.


4.  Operation

Operation is relatively simple.  An application creates a definition for
a for a file transfer and the transfer attempt occurs when the
application activates or reactivates the entry.


5.  Security

Security of MIB entries depends on SNMPv3 access control for the entire
MIB.

Security of files and file transfers is dependent on the file system in
which they reside and the security of FTP itself.






















Expires 16 November 1998+6 months                               [Page 4]





Internet Draft               FTP Client MIB             16 November 1998


6.  Definitions

CISCO-FTP-CLIENT-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE,
    Gauge32, Counter32                  FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    Unsigned32                          FROM CISCO-TC
    TimeStamp, RowStatus,
    DisplayString                       FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP     FROM SNMPv2-CONF
    ciscoMgmt                           FROM CISCO-SMI;

ciscoFtpClientMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9810291700Z"
    ORGANIZATION "Cisco Systems, Inc."
    CONTACT-INFO "Cisco Systems
                  Customer Service

                  Postal: 170 W Tasman Drive
                  San Jose, CA  95134
                  USA

                  Tel: +1 800 553-NETS

                  E-mail: cs-snmp@cisco.com"
    DESCRIPTION
        "The MIB module for invoking Internet File Transfer Protocol
        (FTP) operations for network management purposes."
    ::= { ciscoMgmt 80 }


ciscoFtpClientMIBObjects OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ciscoFtpClientMIB 1 }

cfcRequest              OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ciscoFtpClientMIBObjects 1 }


--
-- Client Request Control
--

cfcRequestMaximum OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Unsigned32 (0..4294967295)
    MAX-ACCESS  read-write
    STATUS      current





Expires 16 November 1998+6 months                               [Page 5]





Internet Draft               FTP Client MIB             16 November 1998


    DESCRIPTION
        "The maximum number of requests this system can hold in
        cfcRequestTable.  A value of 0 indicates no configured limit.

        This object may be read-only on some systems.

        When an attempt is made to create a new entry but the table
        is full, the oldest completed entry is bumped out and
        cfcRequestsBumped is incremented.

        Changing this number does not disturb existing requests that
        are not completed and bumps completed requests as necessary."
    ::= { cfcRequest 1 }

cfcRequests OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Gauge32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The current number of requests in cfcRequestTable."
    ::= { cfcRequest 2 }

cfcRequestsHigh OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Gauge32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The highest number of requests in cfcRequestTable since this
        system was last initialized."
    ::= { cfcRequest 3 }

cfcRequestsBumped OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of requests in cfcRequestTable that were bumped
        out to make room for a new request."
    ::= { cfcRequest 4 }

--
-- Client Request Control Table
--

cfcRequestTable OBJECT-TYPE





Expires 16 November 1998+6 months                               [Page 6]





Internet Draft               FTP Client MIB             16 November 1998


    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF CfcRequestEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A table of FTP client requests."
    ::= { cfcRequest 5 }

cfcRequestEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      CfcRequestEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Information about an FTP client request.  Management applications
        use cfcRequestEntryStatus to control entry modification, creation,
        and deletion.

        Setting cfcRequestEntryStatus to 'active' from any state including
        'active' causes the operation to be started.

        An entry may be modified only when its cfcRequestOperationState is
        'stopped'.

        The value of cfcRequestEntryStatus may be set to 'destroy' at any
        time.  Doing so will abort a running request."
    INDEX       { cfcRequestIndex }
    ::= { cfcRequestTable 1 }

CfcRequestEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    cfcRequestIndex             Unsigned32,
    cfcRequestOperation         INTEGER,
    cfcRequestLocalFile         DisplayString,
    cfcRequestRemoteFile        DisplayString,
    cfcRequestServer            DisplayString,
    cfcRequestUser              DisplayString,
    cfcRequestPassword          DisplayString,
    cfcRequestResult            INTEGER,
    cfcRequestCompletionTime    TimeStamp,
    cfcRequestStop              INTEGER,
    cfcRequestOperationState    INTEGER,
    cfcRequestEntryStatus       RowStatus
}

cfcRequestIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Unsigned32 (1..4294967295)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible





Expires 16 November 1998+6 months                               [Page 7]





Internet Draft               FTP Client MIB             16 November 1998


    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "An arbitrary integer to uniquely identify this entry.  To
        create an entry a management application should pick a
        random number."
    ::= { cfcRequestEntry 1 }

cfcRequestOperation OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER { putBinary(1), putASCII(2) }
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The FTP operation to be performed."
    DEFVAL      { putBinary }
    ::= { cfcRequestEntry 2 }

cfcRequestLocalFile OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      DisplayString (SIZE (1..255))
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The local file on which the operation is to be performed."
    ::= { cfcRequestEntry 3 }

cfcRequestRemoteFile OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      DisplayString (SIZE (1..255))
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The remote file on which the operation is to be performed."
    ::= { cfcRequestEntry 4 }

cfcRequestServer OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      DisplayString (SIZE (1..64))
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The domain name or IP address of the FTP server to use."
    ::= { cfcRequestEntry 5 }

cfcRequestUser OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      DisplayString (SIZE (1..32))
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION





Expires 16 November 1998+6 months                               [Page 8]





Internet Draft               FTP Client MIB             16 November 1998


        "The user name to use at the FTP server."
    ::= { cfcRequestEntry 6 }

cfcRequestPassword OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      DisplayString (SIZE (0..16))
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The password to use at the FTP server.

        When read this object always returns a zero-length string."
    DEFVAL      { ''H }
    ::= { cfcRequestEntry 7 }

cfcRequestResult OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                pending(1),
                success(2),
                aborted(3),
                fileOpenFailLocal(4),
                fileOpenFailRemote(5),
                badDomainName(6),
                unreachableIpAddress(7),
                linkFailed(8),
                fileReadFailed(9),
                fileWriteFailed(10)
                }
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The result of the FTP operation."
    ::= { cfcRequestEntry 8 }

cfcRequestCompletionTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value of sysUpTime when the operation completed.  For
        an incomplete operation this value is zero."
    ::= { cfcRequestEntry 9 }

cfcRequestStop OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER { ready(1), stop(2) }
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create





Expires 16 November 1998+6 months                               [Page 9]





Internet Draft               FTP Client MIB             16 November 1998


    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The action control to stop a running request.  Setting this to
        'stop' will begin the process of stopping the request.  Setting
        it to 'ready' or setting it to 'stop' more than once have no
        effect.  When read this object always returns ready."
    ::= { cfcRequestEntry 10 }

cfcRequestOperationState OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER { running(1), stopping(2), stopped(3) }
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The operational state of the file transfer.  To short-terminate
        the transfer set cfcRequestStop to 'stop'."
    ::= { cfcRequestEntry 11 }

cfcRequestEntryStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The control that allows modification, creation, and deletion
        of entries.  For detailed rules see the DESCRIPTION for
        cfcRequestEntry."
    ::= { cfcRequestEntry 12 }


--
-- Conformance
--

ciscoFtpClientMIBConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ciscoFtpClientMIB 3 }

ciscoFtpClientMIBCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=
        { ciscoFtpClientMIBConformance 1 }
ciscoFtpClientMIBGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=
        { ciscoFtpClientMIBConformance 2 }

-- Compliance

ciscoFtpClientMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
                "The compliance statement for entities which implement





Expires 16 November 1998+6 months                              [Page 10]





Internet Draft               FTP Client MIB             16 November 1998


                the Cisco FTP Client MIB.  Implementation of this MIB
                is based on individual product needs."
        MODULE  -- this module
                MANDATORY-GROUPS {
                        ciscoFtpClientRequestGroup
                }

        ::= { ciscoFtpClientMIBCompliances 1 }

-- Units of Conformance

ciscoFtpClientRequestGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
                cfcRequestMaximum,
                cfcRequests,
                cfcRequestsHigh,
                cfcRequestsBumped,
                cfcRequestOperation,
                cfcRequestLocalFile,
                cfcRequestRemoteFile,
                cfcRequestServer,
                cfcRequestUser,
                cfcRequestPassword,
                cfcRequestResult,
                cfcRequestCompletionTime,
                cfcRequestStop,
                cfcRequestOperationState,
                cfcRequestEntryStatus
        }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
                "FTP client request management."
        ::= { ciscoFtpClientMIBGroups 1 }

END















Expires 16 November 1998+6 months                              [Page 11]





Internet Draft               FTP Client MIB             16 November 1998


7.  Intellectual Property

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed to pertain
to the implementation or use of the technology described in this
document or the extent to which any license under such rights might or
might not be available; neither does it represent that it has made any
effort to identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's
procedures with respect to rights in standards-track and standards-
related documentation can be found in BCP-11.  Copies of claims of
rights made available for publication and any assurances of licenses to
be made available, or the result of an attempt made to obtain a general
license or permission for the use of such proprietary rights by
implementors or users of this specification can be obtained from the
IETF Secretariat.



































Expires 16 November 1998+6 months                              [Page 12]





Internet Draft               FTP Client MIB             16 November 1998


8.  Acknowledgements

This MIB contains considerable contributions from the RMON MIB, the
Distributed Management Design Team (Andy Bierman, Maria Greene, Bob
Stewart, and Steve Waldbusser), and colleagues at Cisco.













































Expires 16 November 1998+6 months                              [Page 13]





Internet Draft               FTP Client MIB             16 November 1998


9.  References

[1]  Harrington, D., Presuhn, R. and B. Wijnen, "An Architecture for
     Describing SNMP Management Frameworks", RFC 2271, Cabletron
     Systems, Inc., BMC Software, Inc., IBM T. J. Watson Research,
     January 1998.

[2]  Rose, M. and K. McCloghrie, "Structure and Identification of
     Management Information for TCP/IP-based Internets", RFC 1155,
     Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems, May 1990.

[3]  Rose, M. and K. McCloghrie, "Concise MIB Definitions", RFC 1212,
     Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems, March 1991.

[4]  M. Rose, "A Convention for Defining Traps for use with the SNMP",
     RFC 1215, Performance Systems International, March 1991.

[5]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M. and S. Waldbusser, "Structure of
     Management Information for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902, SNMP Research,Inc., Cisco
     Systems, Inc., Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network
     Services, January 1996.

[6]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M. and S. Waldbusser, "Textual
     Conventions for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1903, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[7]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M. and S. Waldbusser, "Conformance
     Statements for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1904, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[8]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M. and J. Davin, "Simple Network
     Management Protocol", RFC 1157, SNMP Research, Performance Systems
     International, Performance Systems International, MIT Laboratory
     for Computer Science, May 1990.

[9]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M. and S. Waldbusser, "Introduction
     to Community-based SNMPv2", RFC 1901, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco
     Systems, Inc., Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network
     Services, January 1996.






Expires 16 November 1998+6 months                              [Page 14]





Internet Draft               FTP Client MIB             16 November 1998


[10] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M. and S. Waldbusser, "Transport
     Mappings for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1906, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[11] Case, J., Harrington D., Presuhn R. and B. Wijnen, "Message
     Processing and Dispatching for the Simple Network Management
     Protocol (SNMP)", RFC 2272, SNMP Research, Inc., Cabletron Systems,
     Inc., BMC Software, Inc., IBM T. J. Watson Research, January 1998.

[12] Blumenthal, U. and B. Wijnen, "User-based Security Model (USM) for
     version 3 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv3)", RFC
     2274, IBM T. J. Watson Research, January 1998.

[13] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M. and S. Waldbusser, "Protocol
     Operations for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[14] Levi, D., Meyer, P. and B. Stewart, "SNMPv3 Applications", RFC
     2273, SNMP Research, Inc., Secure Computing Corporation, Cisco
     Systems, January 1998.

[15] Wijnen, B., Presuhn, R. and K. McCloghrie, "View-based Access
     Control Model (VACM) for the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMP)", RFC 2275, IBM T. J. Watson Research, BMC Software, Inc.,
     Cisco Systems, Inc., January 1998.

[16] Stewart, B., "Bulk File MIB", RFC ????, Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     ?Month? 1998.


















Expires 16 November 1998+6 months                              [Page 15]





Internet Draft               FTP Client MIB             16 November 1998


10.  Security Considerations

Security issues are discussed in the Overview section and in the
DESCRIPTION clauses of relevant objects.


11.  Author's Address

     Bob Stewart
     Cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive
     San Jose, CA 95134-1706
     U.S.A.

     Phone: +1 408 526 4527
     Email: bstewart@cisco.com


































Expires 16 November 1998+6 months                              [Page 16]





Internet Draft               FTP Client MIB             16 November 1998


12.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1998). All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the  purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS
IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK
FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT
INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
























Expires 16 November 1998+6 months                              [Page 17]





Internet Draft               FTP Client MIB             16 November 1998


Table of Contents


1 Abstract ........................................................    2
2 The SNMP Management Framework ...................................    2
3 Overview ........................................................    4
4 Operation .......................................................    4
5 Security ........................................................    4
6 Definitions .....................................................    5
7 Intellectual Property ...........................................   12
8 Acknowledgements ................................................   13
9 References ......................................................   14
10 Security Considerations ........................................   16
11 Author's Address ...............................................   16
12 Full Copyright Statement .......................................   17



































Expires 16 November 1998+6 months                              [Page 18]

