

Hub MIB Working Group                                         J. Johnson
INTERNET DRAFT                                       cisco Systems, Inc.
                                                               June 1996


                  Definitions of Managed Objects for
                   the Ethernet-like Interface Types


                 <draft-ietf-hubmib-etherif-mib-00.txt>


                          Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
``1id-abstracts.txt'' listing contained in the Internet- Drafts Shadow
Directories on ftp.is.co.za (Africa), nic.nordu.net (Europe),
munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim), ds.internic.net (US East Coast), or
ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast).


                                Abstract

This memo is an extension to the SNMP MIB.  It specifies an IAB
standards track protocol for the Internet community, and requests
discussion and suggestions for improvements.  The origin of this memo is
from RFC 1650 "Definitions of Managed Objects for the Ethernet-like
Interface Types using SMIv2." This memo extends that specification by
including management information useful for the management of 100-BaseT
ethernet interfaces.

Distribution of this memo is unlimited.  Please forward comments to
hubmib@hprnd.rose.hp.com.








Expires December 1996                                           [Page 1]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


1. Introduction

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing ethernet-like interfaces.

This memo also includes a MIB module.  This MIB module extends the list
of managed objects specified in the earlier version of this MIB: RFC1650
[11].


2.  The SNMP Network Management Framework

The SNMP Network Management Framework consists of several components.
For the purpose of this specification, the applicable components of the
Framework are the SMI and related documents [2, 3, 4], which define the
mechanisms used for describing and naming objects for the purpose of
management.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.


2.1.  Object Definitions

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) [1] defined in
the SMI [2].  In particular, each object object type is named by an
OBJECT IDENTIFIER, an administratively assigned name.  The object type
together with an object instance serves to uniquely identify a specific
instantiation of the object.  For human convenience, we often use a
textual string, termed the descriptor, to refer to the object type.


3.  Change Log

This section enumerates changes made to RFC 1650 to produce this
document.

      (1)   The MODULE-IDENTITY has been updated to reflect the changes
            in the MIB.

      (2)   A new object, dot3StatsSymbolErrors, has been added.

      (3)   The description of the object dot3StatsSQETestErrors has
            been updated to reflect the fact that this object is not
            applicable to 100Base-T interfaces.



Expires December 1996                                           [Page 2]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


      (4)   The definition of the object dot3StatsIndex has been
            converted to use the SMIv2 OBJECT-TYPE macro.

      (5)   A new conformance group, etherStats100MbsGroup, has been
            added.

      (6)   A new compliance statement, ether100MbsCompliance, has
            been added.

      (7)   The Acknowledgements were extended to provide a more
            complete history of the origin of this document.


4.  Overview

Instances of these object types represent attributes of an interface to
an ethernet-like communications medium.  At present, ethernet-like media
are identified by the following values of the ifType object in the
Interfaces MIB [12]:

         ethernet-csmacd(6)
         iso88023-csmacd(7)
         starLan(11)
         fastEther(62)
         fastEtherFX(69)

The definitions presented here are based on the IEEE 802.3 Layer
Management Specification [5], as originally interpreted by Frank
Kastenholz then of Interlan in [7].  Implementors of these MIB objects
should note that the IEEE document explicitly describes (in the form of
Pascal pseudocode) when, where, and how various MAC attributes are
measured.  The IEEE document also describes the effects of MAC actions
that may be invoked by manipulating instances of the MIB objects defined
here.

To the extent that some of the attributes defined in [5] are represented
by previously defined objects in the Internet-standard MIB or in the
Interfaces Group Evolution MIB [12], such attributes are not redundantly
represented by objects defined in this memo.  Among the attributes
represented by objects defined in other memos are the number of octets
transmitted or received on a particular interface, the number of frames
transmitted or received on a particular interface, the promiscuous
status of an interface, the MAC address of an interface, and multicast
information associated with an interface.


4.1.  Relation to RFC 1213




Expires December 1996                                           [Page 3]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


This section applies only when this MIB is used in conjunction with the
"old" (i.e., pre-RFC 1573) interface group.

The relationship between an ethernet-like interface and an interface in
the context of the Internet-standard MIB is one-to-one.  As such, the
value of an ifIndex object instance can be directly used to identify
corresponding instances of the objects defined herein.

For agents which implement the (now deprecated) ifSpecific object, an
instance of that object that is associated with an ethernet-like
interface has the OBJECT IDENTIFIER value:

      dot3    OBJECT IDENTIFER ::= { transmission 7 }



4.2.  Relation to RFC 1573

RFC 1573, the Interface MIB Evolution, requires that any MIB which is an
adjunct of the Interface MIB, clarify specific areas within the
Interface MIB.  These areas were intentionally left vague in RFC 1573 to
avoid over constraining the MIB, thereby precluding management of
certain media-types.

Section 3.3 of RFC 1573 enumerates several areas which a media- specific
MIB must clarify.  Each of these areas is addressed in a following
subsection.  The implementor is referred to RFC 1573 in order to
understand the general intent of these areas.


4.2.1.  Layering Model

This MIB does not provide for layering.  There are no sublayers.

EDITOR'S NOTE:

One could forsee the development of an 802.2 and enet-transceiver MIB.
They could be higher and lower sublayers, respectively.  All that THIS
document should do is allude to the possibilities and urge the
implementor to be aware of the possibility and that they may have
requirements which supersede the requirements in this document.


4.2.2.  Virtual Circuits

This medium does not support virtual circuits and this area is not
applicable to this MIB.




Expires December 1996                                           [Page 4]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


4.2.3.  ifTestTable

This MIB defines two tests for media which are instumented with this
MIB; TDR and Loopback.  Implementation of these tests is not required.
Many common interface chips do not support one or both of these tests.

These two tests are provided as a convenience, allowing a common method
to invoke the test.

Standard MIBs do not include objects in which to return the results of
the TDR test.  Any needed objects MUST be provided in the vendor
specific MIB.


4.2.4.  ifRcvAddressTable

This table contains all IEEE 802.3 addresses, unicast, multicast, and
broadcast, for which this interface will receive packets and forward
them up to a higher layer entity for local consumption.  The format of
the address, contained in ifRcvAddressAddress, is the same as for
ifPhysAddress.

In the event that the interface is part of a MAC bridge, this table does
not include unicast addresses which are accepted for possible forwarding
out some other port.  This table is explicitly not intended to provide a
bridge address filtering mechanism.


4.2.5.  ifPhysAddress

This object contains the IEEE 802.3 address which is placed in the
source-address field of any Ethernet, Starlan, or IEEE 802.3 frames that
originate at this interface.  Usually this will be kept in ROM on the
interface hardware.  Some systems may set this address via software.

In a system where there are several such addresses the designer has a
tougher choice.  The address chosen should be the one most likely to be
of use to network management (e.g.  the address placed in ARP responses
for systems which are primarily IP systems).

If the designer truly can not chose, use of the factory- provided ROM
address is suggested.

If the address can not be determined, an octet string of zero length
should be returned.

The address is stored in binary in this object.  The address is stored
in "canonical" bit order, that is, the Group Bit is positioned as the



Expires December 1996                                           [Page 5]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


low-order bit of the first octet.  Thus, the first byte of a multicast
address would have the bit 0x01 set.


4.2.6.  ifType

This MIB applies to interfaces which have any of the following ifType
values:

         ethernet-csmacd(6)
         iso88023-csmacd(7)
         starLan(11)
         fastEther(62)
         fastEtherFX(69)

Interfaces with any of the first three ifType values map to the
EtherLike-MIB in the same manner.  The EtherLike-MIB etherCompliance
compliance statement applies equally to all three types; there are no
implementation differences.  Similiarly, interfaces with either of the
last two ifType values map to the EtherLike-MIB in the same manner.  The
EtherLike-MIB ether100MbsCompliance compliance statement applies equally
to both types; there are no implementation differences.





























Expires December 1996                                           [Page 6]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


5.  Definitions

EtherLike-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

   IMPORTS
       MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, Counter32, mib-2 FROM SNMPv2-SMI
       MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP                FROM SNMPv2-CONF
       ifIndex, InterfaceIndex                        FROM IF-MIB;

   etherMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
       LAST-UPDATED "9606052300Z"
       ORGANIZATION "IETF 802.3 Hub MIB Working Group"
       CONTACT-INFO
           "WG E-mail: hubmib@hprnd.rose.hp.com

               Editor: Jeffrey Johnson
               Postal: cisco Systems, Inc.
                       170 W.Tasman Drive
                       San Jose, CA, 94015
                       USA
                  Tel: +1 408 526 7789
               E-Mail: jjohnson@cisco.com"
       DESCRIPTION
           "The MIB module to describe generic objects for
           Ethernet-like network interfaces. This MIB is an
           updated version of the Ethernet-like MIB in RFC
           1650."
       REVISION        "9606052300Z"
       DESCRIPTION
           "Updated to include support for 100 Mb/sec interfaces."
       ::= { mib-2 35 }

   etherMIBObjects OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { etherMIB 1 }

   dot3    OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { transmission 7 }

   -- the Ethernet-like Statistics group

    dot3StatsTable  OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF Dot3StatsEntry
         MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
         STATUS     current
         DESCRIPTION
          "Statistics for a collection of ethernet-like
          interfaces attached to a particular system."
         ::= { dot3 2 }





Expires December 1996                                           [Page 7]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


    dot3StatsEntry   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      Dot3StatsEntry
         MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
           "Statistics for a particular interface to an
           ethernet-like medium."
         INDEX       { dot3StatsIndex }
         ::= { dot3StatsTable 1 }

    Dot3StatsEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
         dot3StatsIndex                      InterfaceIndex,
         dot3StatsAlignmentErrors            Counter32,
         dot3StatsFCSErrors                  Counter32,
         dot3StatsSingleCollisionFrames      Counter32,
         dot3StatsMultipleCollisionFrames    Counter32,
         dot3StatsSQETestErrors              Counter32,
         dot3StatsDeferredTransmissions      Counter32,
         dot3StatsLateCollisions             Counter32,
         dot3StatsExcessiveCollisions        Counter32,
         dot3StatsInternalMacTransmitErrors  Counter32,
         dot3StatsCarrierSenseErrors         Counter32,
         dot3StatsFrameTooLongs              Counter32,
         dot3StatsInternalMacReceiveErrors   Counter32,
         dot3StatsEtherChipSet               OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
         dot3StatsSymbolErrors               Counter32
    }

    dot3StatsIndex   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      InterfaceIndex
         MAX-ACCESS  read-only
         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
           "An index value that uniquely identifies an
           interface to an ethernet-like medium.  The
           interface identified by a particular value of
           this index is the same interface as identified
           by the same value of ifIndex."
         ::= { dot3StatsEntry 1 }

    dot3StatsAlignmentErrors   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      Counter32
         MAX-ACCESS  read-only
         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
          "A count of frames received on a particular
          interface that are not an integral number of
          octets in length and do not pass the FCS check.



Expires December 1996                                           [Page 8]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


          The count represented by an instance of this
          object is incremented when the alignmentError
          status is returned by the MAC service to the
          LLC (or other MAC user). Received frames for
          which multiple error conditions obtain are,
          according to the conventions of IEEE 802.3
          Layer Management, counted exclusively according
          to the error status presented to the LLC."
         REFERENCE
         "IEEE 802.3 Layer Management"
         ::= { dot3StatsEntry 2 }

    dot3StatsFCSErrors   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      Counter32
         MAX-ACCESS  read-only
         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
         "A count of frames received on a particular
         interface that are an integral number of octets
         in length but do not pass the FCS check.

         The count represented by an instance of this
         object is incremented when the frameCheckError
         status is returned by the MAC service to the
         LLC (or other MAC user). Received frames for
         which multiple error conditions obtain are,
         according to the conventions of IEEE 802.3
         Layer Management, counted exclusively according
         to the error status presented to the LLC."
         REFERENCE
         "IEEE 802.3 Layer Management"
         ::= { dot3StatsEntry 3 }

    dot3StatsSingleCollisionFrames   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      Counter32
         MAX-ACCESS  read-only
         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
         "A count of successfully transmitted frames on
         a particular interface for which transmission
         is inhibited by exactly one collision.

         A frame that is counted by an instance of this
         object is also counted by the corresponding
         instance of either the ifOutUcastPkts,
         ifOutMulticastPkts, or ifOutBroadcastPkts,
         and is not counted by the corresponding
         instance of the dot3StatsMultipleCollisionFrames



Expires December 1996                                           [Page 9]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


         object."
         REFERENCE
         "IEEE 802.3 Layer Management"
         ::= { dot3StatsEntry 4 }


    dot3StatsMultipleCollisionFrames   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      Counter32
         MAX-ACCESS  read-only
         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
         "A count of successfully transmitted frames on
         a particular interface for which transmission
          is inhibited by more than one collision.

         A frame that is counted by an instance of this
         object is also counted by the corresponding
         instance of either the ifOutUcastPkts,
         ifOutMulticastPkts, or ifOutBroadcastPkts,
         and is not counted by the corresponding
         instance of the dot3StatsSingleCollisionFrames
         object."
         REFERENCE
         "IEEE 802.3 Layer Management"
         ::= { dot3StatsEntry 5 }


    dot3StatsSQETestErrors   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      Counter32
         MAX-ACCESS  read-only
         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
         "A count of times that the SQE TEST ERROR
         message is generated by the PLS sublayer for a
         particular interface. The SQE TEST ERROR
         message is defined in section 7.2.2.2.4 of
         ANSI/IEEE 802.3-1985 and its generation is
         described in section 7.2.4.6 of the same
         document.

         The SQE test function is not a part of 100 Mb/sec
         operation, so an instance of this object need not
         be present for 100 Mb/sec interfaces."
         REFERENCE
         "ANSI/IEEE Std 802.3-1985 Carrier Sense
         Multiple Access with Collision Detection Access
         Method and Physical Layer Specifications"
         ::= { dot3StatsEntry 6 }



Expires December 1996                                          [Page 10]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


    dot3StatsDeferredTransmissions   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      Counter32
         MAX-ACCESS  read-only
         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
         "A count of frames for which the first
         transmission attempt on a particular interface
         is delayed because the medium is busy.

         The count represented by an instance of this
         object does not include frames involved in
         collisions."
         REFERENCE
         "IEEE 802.3 Layer Management"
         ::= { dot3StatsEntry 7 }

    dot3StatsLateCollisions   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      Counter32
         MAX-ACCESS  read-only
         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
         "The number of times that a collision is
         detected on a particular interface later than
         512 bit-times into the transmission of a
         packet.

         Five hundred and twelve bit-times corresponds
         to 51.2 microseconds on a 10 Mbit/s system. A
         (late) collision included in a count
         represented by an instance of this object is
         also considered as a (generic) collision for
         purposes of other collision-related
         statistics."
         REFERENCE
         "IEEE 802.3 Layer Management"
         ::= { dot3StatsEntry 8 }

    dot3StatsExcessiveCollisions   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      Counter32
         MAX-ACCESS  read-only
         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
         "A count of frames for which transmission on a
         particular interface fails due to excessive
         collisions."
         REFERENCE
         "IEEE 802.3 Layer Management"
         ::= { dot3StatsEntry 9 }



Expires December 1996                                          [Page 11]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


    dot3StatsInternalMacTransmitErrors   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      Counter32
         MAX-ACCESS  read-only
         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
         "A count of frames for which transmission on a
         particular interface fails due to an internal
         MAC sublayer transmit error. A frame is only
         counted by an instance of this object if it is
         not counted by the corresponding instance of
         either the dot3StatsLateCollisions object, the
         dot3StatsExcessiveCollisions object, or the
         dot3StatsCarrierSenseErrors object.

         The precise meaning of the count represented by
         an instance of this object is implementation-
         specific.  In particular, an instance of this
         object may represent a count of transmission
         errors on a particular interface that are not
         otherwise counted."
         REFERENCE
         "IEEE 802.3 Layer Management"
         ::= { dot3StatsEntry 10 }

    dot3StatsCarrierSenseErrors   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      Counter32
         MAX-ACCESS  read-only
         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
         "The number of times that the carrier sense
         condition was lost or never asserted when
         attempting to transmit a frame on a particular
         interface.

         The count represented by an instance of this
         object is incremented at most once per
         transmission attempt, even if the carrier sense
         condition fluctuates during a transmission
         attempt."
         REFERENCE
         "IEEE 802.3 Layer Management"
         ::= { dot3StatsEntry 11 }

    -- { dot3StatsEntry 12 } is not assigned

    dot3StatsFrameTooLongs   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      Counter32
         MAX-ACCESS  read-only



Expires December 1996                                          [Page 12]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
         "A count of frames received on a particular
         interface that exceed the maximum permitted
         frame size.

         The count represented by an instance of this
         object is incremented when the frameTooLong
         status is returned by the MAC service to the
         LLC (or other MAC user). Received frames for
         which multiple error conditions obtain are,
         according to the conventions of IEEE 802.3
         Layer Management, counted exclusively according
         to the error status presented to the LLC."
         REFERENCE
         "IEEE 802.3 Layer Management"
         ::= { dot3StatsEntry 13 }

    -- { dot3StatsEntry 14 } is not assigned

    -- { dot3StatsEntry 15 } is not assigned

    dot3StatsInternalMacReceiveErrors   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      Counter32
         MAX-ACCESS  read-only
         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
         "A count of frames for which reception on a
         particular interface fails due to an internal
         MAC sublayer receive error. A frame is only
         counted by an instance of this object if it is
         not counted by the corresponding instance of
         either the dot3StatsFrameTooLongs object, the
         dot3StatsAlignmentErrors object, or the
         dot3StatsFCSErrors object.
         The precise meaning of the count represented by
         an instance of this object is implementation-
         specific.  In particular, an instance of this
         object may represent a count of receive errors
         on a particular interface that are not
         otherwise counted."
         REFERENCE
         "IEEE 802.3 Layer Management"
         ::= { dot3StatsEntry 16 }

    dot3StatsEtherChipSet   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      OBJECT IDENTIFIER
         MAX-ACCESS  read-only



Expires December 1996                                          [Page 13]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
         "This object contains an OBJECT IDENTIFIER
         which identifies the chipset used to
         realize the interface. Ethernet-like
         interfaces are typically built out of
         several different chips. The MIB implementor
         is presented with a decision of which chip
         to identify via this object. The implementor
         should identify the chip which is usually
         called the Medium Access Control chip.
         If no such chip is easily identifiable,
         the implementor should identify the chip
         which actually gathers the transmit
         and receive statistics and error
         indications. This would allow a
         manager station to correlate the
         statistics and the chip generating
         them, giving it the ability to take
         into account any known anomalies
         in the chip."
         ::= { dot3StatsEntry 17 }

    dot3StatsSymbolErrors   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      Counter32
         MAX-ACCESS  read-only
         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
         "The number of times there was an invalid data symbol
         when a valid carrier was present on a particular
         interface.

         The count represented by an instance of this
         object is incremented at most once per
         carrier event, even if multiple symbol
         errors occur during the carrier event."
         REFERENCE
         "IEEE 802.3u-1995 10 & 100 Mb/s Management"
         ::= { dot3StatsEntry 18 }

    -- the Ethernet-like Collision Statistics group

    -- Implementation of this group is optional; it is appropriate
    -- for all systems which have the necessary metering

    dot3CollTable   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF Dot3CollEntry
         MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible



Expires December 1996                                          [Page 14]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
         "A collection of collision histograms for a
         particular set of interfaces."
         ::= { dot3 5 }


    dot3CollEntry   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      Dot3CollEntry
         MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
         "A cell in the histogram of per-frame
         collisions for a particular interface.  An
         instance of this object represents the
         frequency of individual MAC frames for which
         the transmission (successful or otherwise) on a
         particular interface is accompanied by a
         particular number of media collisions."
         INDEX     { ifIndex, dot3CollCount }
         ::= { dot3CollTable 1 }

    Dot3CollEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
         dot3CollCount        INTEGER,
         dot3CollFrequencies  Counter32
    }

    -- { dot3CollEntry 1 } is no longer in use

    dot3CollCount   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      INTEGER (1..16)
         MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
         "The number of per-frame media collisions for
         which a particular collision histogram cell
         represents the frequency on a particular
         interface."
         ::= { dot3CollEntry 2 }


    dot3CollFrequencies   OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX      Counter32
         MAX-ACCESS  read-only
         STATUS      current
         DESCRIPTION
         "A count of individual MAC frames for which the
         transmission (successful or otherwise) on a



Expires December 1996                                          [Page 15]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


         particular interface occurs after the
         frame has experienced exactly the number
         of collisions in the associated
         dot3CollCount object.

         For example, a frame which is transmitted
         on interface 77 after experiencing
         exactly 4 collisions would be indicated
         by incrementing only dot3CollFrequencies.77.4.
         No other instance of dot3CollFrequencies would
         be incremented in this example."
         ::= { dot3CollEntry 3 }

    --  802.3 Tests

    dot3Tests   OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3 6 }

    dot3Errors  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3 7 }


    --  TDR Test

    -- The Time-Domain Reflectometry (TDR) test is specific
    -- to ethernet-like interfaces with the exception of
    -- 10BaseT and 10BaseF. The TDR value may be useful
    -- in determining the approximate distance to a cable fault.
    -- It is advisable to repeat this test to check for a
    -- consistent resulting TDR value, to verify that there
    -- is a fault.

    dot3TestTdr OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3Tests 1 }

    -- A TDR test returns as its result the time interval,
    -- measured in 10 MHz ticks or 100 nsec units, between
    -- the start of TDR test transmission and the subsequent
    -- detection of a collision or deassertion of carrier.  On
    -- successful completion of a TDR test, the result is
    -- stored as the value of the appropriate instance of the
    -- MIB object dot3TestTdrValue, and the OBJECT IDENTIFIER
    -- of that instanceis stored in the corresponding instance
    -- of ifExtnsTestCode (thereby indicating where the
    -- result has been stored).


    -- Loopback Test

    -- Another test is the full-duplex loopback test.
    -- This test configures the MAC chip and executes



Expires December 1996                                          [Page 16]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


    -- an internal loopback test of memory, data paths,
    -- and the MAC chip logic.  This loopback test can
    -- only be executed if the interface is offline.
    -- Once the test has completed, the MAC chip should
    -- be reinitialized for network operation, but it
    -- should remain offline.

    dot3TestLoopBack OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3Tests 2 }

    -- If an error occurs during a test, the object
    -- ifTestResult (defined in RFC1573) will be set
    -- to failed(7).  The following two OBJECT
    -- IDENTIFIERs may be used to provided more
    -- information as values for ifTestCode.

             -- couldn't initialize MAC chip for test
    dot3ErrorInitError     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3Errors 1 }

             -- expected data not received (or not
             -- received correctly) in loopback test
    dot3ErrorLoopbackError OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3Errors 2 }

    -- RFC1573 does away with the interface chipset object.
    -- The following OBJECT IDENTIFIER definitions are
    -- retained for purposes of backwards compatibility
    -- with pre-RFC1573 systems.
    --  802.3 Hardware Chipsets

    -- The object ifExtnsChipSet is provided in RFC1229 to
    -- identify the MAC hardware used to communicate on an
    -- interface.  The following hardware chipsets are
    -- provided for 802.3:

    dot3ChipSets          OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3 8 }
    dot3ChipSetAMD        OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3ChipSets 1 }
    dot3ChipSetAMD7990    OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3ChipSetAMD 1 }
    dot3ChipSetAMD79900   OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3ChipSetAMD 2 }
    dot3ChipSetAMD79C940  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3ChipSetAMD 3 }

    dot3ChipSetIntel      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3ChipSets 2 }
    dot3ChipSetIntel82586 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3ChipSetIntel 1 }
    dot3ChipSetIntel82596 OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3ChipSetIntel 2 }

    dot3ChipSetSeeq       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3ChipSets 3 }
    dot3ChipSetSeeq8003   OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3ChipSetSeeq 1 }

    dot3ChipSetNational      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3ChipSets 4 }
    dot3ChipSetNational8390  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=



Expires December 1996                                          [Page 17]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


                               { dot3ChipSetNational 1 }
    dot3ChipSetNationalSonic OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=
                               { dot3ChipSetNational 2 }

    dot3ChipSetFujitsu       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3ChipSets 5 }
    dot3ChipSetFujitsu86950  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=
                               { dot3ChipSetFujitsu 1 }

    dot3ChipSetDigital       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot3ChipSets 6 }
    dot3ChipSetDigitalDC21040  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=
                               { dot3ChipSetDigital 1 }

    -- For those chipsets not represented above, OBJECT IDENTIFIER
    -- assignment is required in other documentation, e.g., assignment
    -- within that part of the registration tree delegated to
    -- individual enterprises (see RFC1155).

   -- conformance information

   etherConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { etherMIB 2 }

   etherGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { etherConformance 1 }
   etherCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { etherConformance 2 }


   -- compliance statements

   etherCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
       STATUS  current
       DESCRIPTION
       "The compliance statement for SNMPv2 entities which
        have ethernet-like network interfaces."

       MODULE  -- this module
       MANDATORY-GROUPS { etherStatsGroup }

       GROUP       etherCollisionTableGroup
       DESCRIPTION
       "This group is optional. It is appropriate for
       all systems which have the necessary metering.
       Implementation in such systems is highly
       recommended."
       ::= { etherCompliances 1 }

   ether100MbsCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
       STATUS  current
       DESCRIPTION
       "The compliance statement for SNMPv2 entities which



Expires December 1996                                          [Page 18]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


        have 100 Mb/sec ethernet-like network interfaces."

       MODULE  -- this module
       MANDATORY-GROUPS { etherStats100MbsGroup }

       GROUP       etherCollisionTableGroup
       DESCRIPTION
       "This group is optional. It is appropriate for
       all systems which have the necessary metering.
       Implementation in such systems is highly
       recommended."
       ::= { etherCompliances 2 }

   -- units of conformance

   etherStatsGroup    OBJECT-GROUP
       OBJECTS { dot3StatsIndex, dot3StatsAlignmentErrors,
       dot3StatsFCSErrors,
       dot3StatsSingleCollisionFrames,
       dot3StatsMultipleCollisionFrames,
       dot3StatsSQETestErrors,
       dot3StatsDeferredTransmissions,
       dot3StatsLateCollisions,
       dot3StatsExcessiveCollisions,
       dot3StatsInternalMacTransmitErrors,
       dot3StatsCarrierSenseErrors,
       dot3StatsFrameTooLongs,
       dot3StatsInternalMacReceiveErrors,
       dot3StatsEtherChipSet}
       STATUS  current
       DESCRIPTION
       "A collection of objects providing information
       applicable to all ethernet-like network interfaces."
       ::= { etherGroups 1 }


   etherCollisionTableGroup    OBJECT-GROUP
       OBJECTS { dot3CollCount, dot3CollFrequencies }
       STATUS  current
       DESCRIPTION
       "A collection of objects providing a histogram
       of packets successfully transmitted after
       experiencing exactly N collisions."
       ::= { etherGroups 2 }


   etherStats100MbsGroup    OBJECT-GROUP
       OBJECTS { dot3StatsIndex, dot3StatsAlignmentErrors,



Expires December 1996                                          [Page 19]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


       dot3StatsFCSErrors,
       dot3StatsSingleCollisionFrames,
       dot3StatsMultipleCollisionFrames,
       dot3StatsDeferredTransmissions,
       dot3StatsLateCollisions,
       dot3StatsExcessiveCollisions,
       dot3StatsInternalMacTransmitErrors,
       dot3StatsCarrierSenseErrors,
       dot3StatsFrameTooLongs,
       dot3StatsInternalMacReceiveErrors,
       dot3StatsEtherChipSet,
       dot3StatsSymbolErrors}
       STATUS  current
       DESCRIPTION
       "A collection of objects providing information
       applicable to 100 Mb/sec ethernet-like network
       interfaces."
       ::= { etherGroups 3 }


END


6.  Acknowledgements

This document was produced by the 802.3 Hub MIB Working Group.

This document is almost completely based on both the Standard Ethernet
MIB, RFC 1623 [10], and the Proposed Standard Ethernet MIB using the
SNMPv2 SMI, RFC 1650 [11], both of which were edited by Frank Kastenholz
of FTP Software and produced by the Ethernet MIB Working Group.  This
document extends those documents by providing support for 100 Mb/sec
ethernet interfaces as outlined in [6].

RFC 1623 and RFC 1650, in turn, are based on the Draft Standard Ethernet
MIB, RFC 1398 [9], also edited by Frank Kastenholz and produced by the
Ethernet MIB Working Group.

RFC 1398, in turn, is based on the Proposed Standard Ethernet MIB, RFC
1284 [8], which was editted by John Cook of Chipcom and produced by the
Transmission MIB Working Group.  The Ethernet MIB Working Group gathered
implementation experience of the variables specified in RFC 1284 and
used that information to develop this revised MIB.

RFC 1284, in turn, is based on a document written by Frank Kastenholz,
then of Interlan, entitled IEEE 802.3 Layer Management Draft M
compatible MIB for TCP/IP Networks [7].  This document has been modestly
reworked, initially by the SNMP Working Group, and then by the



Expires December 1996                                          [Page 20]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


Transmission Working Group, to reflect the current conventions for
defining objects for MIB interfaces.  James Davin, of the MIT Laboratory
for Computer Science, and Keith McCloghrie of Hughes LAN Systems,
contributed to later drafts of this memo. Marshall Rose of Performance
Systems International, Inc. converted the document into its current
concise format. Anil Rijsinghani of DEC contributed text that more
adequately describes the TDR test.  Thanks to Frank Kastenholz of
Interlan and Louis Steinberg of IBM for their experimentation.



7.  References

   [1] Information processing systems - Open Systems Interconnection -
       Specification of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1),
       International Organization for Standardization, International
       Standard 8824, December 1987.

   [2] SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
       S. Waldbusser, "Structure of Management Information for Version 2
       of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902,
       January 1996.

   [3] SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
       S. Waldbusser, "Textual Conventions for Version 2 of the Simple
       Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1903, January 1996.

   [4] SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
       S. Waldbusser, "Conformance Statements for Version 2 of the
       Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1904,
       January 1996.

   [5] IEEE, IEEE 802.3 Layer Management, November 1988.

   [6] IEEE, IEEE 802.3u-1995, "10 & 100 Mb/s Management," Section 30,
       Supplement to IEEE Std 802.3, October 26, 1995.

   [7] Kastenholz, F., "IEEE 802.3 Layer Management Draft compatible MIB
       for TCP/IP Networks", electronic mail message to mib-
       wg@nnsc.nsf.net, 9 June 1989.

   [8] Cook, J., "Definitions of Managed Objects for Ethernet-Like
       Interface Types", RFC 1284, Chipcom Corporation, December 1991.

   [9] Kastenholz, F., "Definitions of Managed Objects for the
       Ethernet-like Interface Types", RFC 1398, FTP Software, Inc.,
       January 1993.




Expires December 1996                                          [Page 21]

INTERNET DRAFT             Ethernet-Like MIB                   June 1996


  [10] Kastenholz, F., "Definitions of Managed Objects for the
       Ethernet-like Interface Types", RFC 1623, FTP Software, Inc.,
       May 1994.

  [11] Kastenholz, F., "Definitions of Managed Objects for the
       Ethernet-like Interface Types using SMIv2", RFC 1650,
       FTP Software, Inc., August 1994.

  [12] McCloghrie, K., and F. Kastenholz, "Evolution of the Interfaces
       Group of MIB-II", RFC 1573, Hughes LAN Systems, FTP Software,
       January 1994.


8.  Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.


9.  Author's Addresses

Jeffrey Johnson
cisco Systems, Inc.
170 W.Tasman Drive
San Jose, CA, 94015, USA

Phone: +1-408-526-7789
EMail: jjohnson@cisco.com
























Expires December 1996                                          [Page 22]

