





Network Working Group                                      Bernard Aboba
INTERNET-DRAFT                                                 Tim Moore
Category: Informational                                        Microsoft
<draft-aboba-802-context-01.txt>
28 August 2001



                A Model for Context Transfer in IEEE 802

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet- Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.

Abstract

IEEE 802.1X [13] enables authenticated access to IEEE 802 media,
including Ethernet, Token Ring, and 802.11 wireless LANs.  Although
Authentication, Authorization and Accounting (AAA) support is optional
within IEEE 802.1X, it is expected that many IEEE 802.1X Authenticators
will function as AAA clients. Behavior of IEEE 802.1X Authenticators
acting as RADIUS clients is described in [24].

The IEEE 802 Inter-Access Point Protocol (IAPP), under development
within the IEEE 802.11 TgF working group, supports the transfer of
context between access points implementing IEEE 802 technology.  Rather
than attempting to define both the context transfer protocol and the
information elements in a single specification, the IAPP protocol
provides a framework for specification and allocation of information
elements. The separation of mechanism and data has enabled work to



Aboba & Moore                 Informational                     [Page 1]





INTERNET-DRAFT  A Model for IEEE 802.1X Context Transfer  28 August 2001


proceed on parallel tracks, with protocol definition occurring
separately from the definition of the information elements.

This document describes how IAPP can be used to support transfer of
authentication, authorization and accounting (AAA) context between
devices supporting IEEE 802.1X network port authentication [13].  It
also defines a framework for allocation of the required information
elements within IAPP.  This specification is currently being developed
within the IEEE 802.11 TgF working group and is being presented to the
IETF for informational purposes.

1.  Introduction

IEEE 802.1X [13] enables authenticated access to IEEE 802 media,
including Ethernet, Token Ring, and 802.11 wireless LANs.  Although
Authentication, Authorization and Accounting (AAA) support is optional
within IEEE 802.1X, it is expected that many IEEE 802.1X Authenticators
will function as AAA clients. Behavior of IEEE 802.1X Authenticators
acting as RADIUS clients is described in [24].

The IEEE 802 Inter-Access Point Protocol (IAPP), under development
within the IEEE 802.11 TgF working group, supports the transfer of
context between access points implementing IEEE 802 technology.  This
document describes how IAPP can be used to support transfer of
authentication, authorization and accounting (AAA) context between
devices supporting IEEE 802.1X network port authentication [13].

In terms of organization, this document first develops a general model
for AAA context transfer.  Central to the model is the notion of a
"correct" context transfer -- a transfer resulting in the same context
on the new access point as would have resulted had a AAA conversation
been completed.

The circumstances in which "correct" context transfer can be achieved
are analyzed -- demonstrating that this can only be achieved in a
limited set of circumstances. As a result, it is suggested that context
transfer protocols restrict the domain of applicability to scenarios
involving a high degree of homogeneity.

For example, layer 2 context transfer solutions are most likely to be
successful transferring context within media families, such as IEEE 802.
While the IAPP protocol is expected to be used primarily for transfer of
context between IEEE 802.11 access points, it is also possible for it to
be used to transfer context between access points supporting other IEEE
802 media, such as IEEE 802.15 or 802.16. Where context transfer between
dissimilar media is required, then higher layer homogeneity is needed.
This can be achieved, for example, by restricting applicability to
access points supporting Mobile IP.



Aboba & Moore                 Informational                     [Page 2]





INTERNET-DRAFT  A Model for IEEE 802.1X Context Transfer  28 August 2001


1.1.  Terminology

This document uses the following terms:

Authenticator
          An Authenticator is an entity that require authentication from
          the Supplicant.  The Authenticator may be connected to the
          Supplicant at the other end of a point-to-point LAN segment or
          802.11 wireless link.

Authentication Server
          An Authentication Server is an entity that provides an
          Authentication Service to an Authenticator. This service
          verifies from the credentials provided by the Supplicant, the
          claim of identity made by the Supplicant.

Port Access Entity (PAE)
          The protocol entity associated with a physical or virtual
          (802.11) Port.  A given PAE may support the protocol
          functionality associated with the Authenticator, Supplicant or
          both.

Supplicant
          A Supplicant is an entity that is being authenticated by an
          Authenticator. The Supplicant may be connected to the
          Authenticator at one end of a point-to-point LAN segment or
          802.11 wireless link.

1.2.  Requirements language

In this document, the key words "MAY", "MUST,  "MUST  NOT",  "optional",
"recommended",  "SHOULD",  and  "SHOULD  NOT",  are to be interpreted as
described in [3].

2.  Context transfer model

In attempting to transfer context between devices, the first task is to
understand how "context" is defined, and what the goal of the context
transfer is. For the purpose of this document "context" will refer to
the set of state defining the service to be provided to the user.

To date, a number of protocols have been proposed for defining and
managing services provided on a per-user basis. RADIUS, defined in
[4]-[6], is a first-generation protocol for Authentication,
Authorization and Accounting (AAA). Diameter [] is a next generation AAA
protocol currently under development. COPS [] is a protocol used to
manage the establishment of Quality of Service (QoS) state.




Aboba & Moore                 Informational                     [Page 3]





INTERNET-DRAFT  A Model for IEEE 802.1X Context Transfer  28 August 2001


In each of these protocols, exchanges are used to establish, and
possibly to remove, state from devices. In thinking about transfer of
context initially established through such protocols, we would like to
propose the "Equivalency Principle":

   For context established via protocol exchanges, transfer of context
   to a new device can be accomplished by transferring the protocol
   exchanges that created the context on the original device, and
   processing them on the new device. For such a context transfer to be
   successful, the the state created on the new device by processing
   such an exchange MUST be equivalent to the state that would have been
   created by having the new device engage in a fresh protocol
   conversation.

For the equivalency principle to be satisfied, it is necessary for the
new device to be able to process the protocol exchanges from the old
device, and for those exchanges to result in the same state on the new
device. This requires that the protocol messages completely describe the
context to be created on the device, and that the effect of processing
these messages not depend on state that exists uniquely on the old
device, but may not exist on the new device.

For example, a protocol message that describes the state to be attained
in terms of deltas from a previous state would not be suitable for use
in context transfer, since the effect of the protocol message would
differ depending on the previous device state. Similarly, if a protocol
message were conditionally executed based on dynamic data, such as the
number of users on the device, then the message might have a different
effect on the new device than on the old device.

To a large extent, AAA protocols meet the criteria, since the desired
device state is completely described by the authorizations. Conditional
execution, if it occurs, is relatively rare and usually confined to the
AAA server.

The set of messages that establish service context differ, depending on
the AAA protocol that is being considered.  Within RADIUS [4]-[6],
service context is only established via an Access-Accept. Access-Reject
messages do not establish context since their purpose is to deny access.
Similarly, Access-Challenge messages do not establish context since they
represent an intermediate stage within the authentication conversation.
Since only one RADIUS message (Access-Accept) establishes service
context, to re-establish context on a new device, to first order it is
only necessary to transfer Access-Accept messages to the new device, and
process them as if they were sent by the RADIUS server.

Note that since only one RADIUS message type can establish context, the
message type need not be included explicitly, since it is implicit. As a



Aboba & Moore                 Informational                     [Page 4]





INTERNET-DRAFT  A Model for IEEE 802.1X Context Transfer  28 August 2001


result, devices supporting transfer of RADIUS context need only transfer
attributes, not the entire RADIUS message.

2.1.  "Correct" context transfer

Given this model for context establishment, it is worthwhile to examine
when the transfer of context between devices produces a "correct"
result.

One way to define correctness in a context transfer is that the transfer
establishes on the new device the same context as would have been
created had the new device completed a AAA conversation with the
authentication server.  Ideally, a context transfer should only succeed
if it is "correct" in this way. If a successful context transfer would
establish "incorrect" state, it would be preferable for such a transfer
to fail.

Not all AAA and access device configurations are capable of meeting this
definition of "correctness".  Implicit within our context transfer model
is trust between devices transferring context.  Since the new device
acts on the context transfer as though it had been instructed by a
trusted AAA server, it is necessary for the new device to trust the old
device.

In transfer of context across administrative domains, such a level of
trust may not be possible or appropriate. As a result, a context
transfer may fail even in situations where the devices are homogeneous,
due to lack of trust between administrative domains.

If the deployment is heterogeneous, it also may be difficult to meet
this definition of correctness.  In these situations, AAA servers often
perform conditional evaluation, in which the authorizations returned in
an Access-Accept message are contingent on characteristics of the AAA
client or the user.  For example, in a heterogeneous deployment, the AAA
server might return different authorizations depending on the type of
device making the request, in order to make sure that the requested
service is consistent with device capabilities.

If differences between the new and old device would result in the AAA
server sending a different set of messages to the new device than were
sent to the old device, then a context transfer between the devices
cannot be carried out correctly.

For example, if some access points within a deployment support dynamic
VLANs while others do not, then attributes present in the Access-Request
(such as the NAS-IP-Address, NAS-Identifier, Vendor-Identifier, etc.)
could be examined to determine when VLAN attributes will be returned, as
described in [24].



Aboba & Moore                 Informational                     [Page 5]





INTERNET-DRAFT  A Model for IEEE 802.1X Context Transfer  28 August 2001


In practice, this limits the situations in which context transfer can be
expected to be successful. Where the deployed devices implement the same
set of services, it may be possible to transfer context successfully.
However, where the supported services differ between devices, or where
some devices require vendor specific attributes, the context transfer
may not succeed. For example, RFC 2865, section 1.1 states:

   "A NAS that does not implement a given service MUST NOT implement the
   RADIUS attributes for that service.  For example, a NAS that is
   unable to offer ARAP service MUST NOT implement the RADIUS attributes
   for ARAP.  A NAS MUST treat a RADIUS access-accept authorizing an
   unavailable service as an access-reject instead."

Obeying the Equivalency Principle, if a new device is provided with
RADIUS context for an unavailable service, then it MUST process this
context the same way it would handle a RADIUS Access-Accept requesting
an unavailable service. This MUST cause the context transfer to fail.

Although it may seem somewhat counter-intuitive, failure is indeed the
"correct" result.  Presumably a correctly configured AAA server would
not request that a device carry out a service that it does not
implement. This implies that if the new device were to complete a AAA
conversation that it would be likely to receive different service
instructions than those present in the context transfer. In such a case,
failure of the context transfer is the desired result. This will cause
the new device to go back to the AAA server in order to receive the
appropriate service definition.

Thus in practice, context transfer is most likely to be successful
within a homogeneous device deployment within a single administrative
domain. For example, where all the devices support IEEE 802.1X, success
is possible, as long as the same set of security services are supported.
For example, it would not be advisable to attempt to transfer context
between an 802.11 access point implementing WEP to an 802.15 access
point without security support. The correct result of such a transfer
would be a failure, since if the transfer were blindly carried out, then
the user would find themselves moved from a secure to an insecure
channel without permission from the AAA server. Thus the definition of
an "unsupported service" MUST encompass requests for unavailable
security services.

In general, context transfers between media with different service
models should not be expected to be successful. For example, attempts to
transfer context between cellular devices and 802.11 access points
cannot be "correct" within this model, unless the cellular access points
implement the same set of services as the 802.11 access points. Where
the implemented services differ, the correct behavior would be for such
context transfers to fail, and for the 802.11 AP to pick up the correct



Aboba & Moore                 Informational                     [Page 6]





INTERNET-DRAFT  A Model for IEEE 802.1X Context Transfer  28 August 2001


service definition by going back to the AAA server. Thus while attempted
context transfers between heterogeneous technologies may fail, context
transfers between homogeneous devices have a higher probability of
success.

2.2.  Context handling

AAA is not mandatory to implement for IEEE 802.1X Authenticators.  The
IEEE 802.1X specification provides guidelines for usage of RADIUS [13],
a revised version of which can be found in [24]. However, support for
other protocols is feasible. Since a IEEE 802.1X Authenticator may
support zero or more AAA protocols and implementation of AAA is non-
mandatory, an IEEE 802.1X Authenticator cannot be assumed to implement
any particular AAA protocol.

Therefore it is important that the context transfer protocol be agnostic
with respect to AAA protocols.  If two devices share support for a given
AAA protocol, then the context transfer mechanism should enable the
devices to interoperate. One way to accomplish this is to enable the
context transfer mechanism to support multiple AAA protocols within the
same message. This allows a device that speaks multiple protocols to
interoperate with a device that only supports one of them.

Through addition of a AAA Information Element, and unique sub-elements
for each AAA protocol, it is possible to support transfer of context for
multiple AAA protocols within the same message.  Assigning only one
Information Element for AAA ensures against exhaustion of the IAPP
element space. Since the number of AAA attributes may be substantial,
assignment of Information Elements to individual attributes is to be
avoided.

The packaging of AAA protocol messages within individual sub-elements
enables compatibility with the definition of correctness described
earlier. Within IAPP, a device that receives Information Elements or
sub-elements that it does not support will ignore those elements, and
process those that it does support.

However, as described earlier, our model of context transfer requires
that if a device supports a AAA protocol, that transferred AAA messages
MUST be processed according to the rules of the protocol. For RADIUS,
this implies that the context transfer MUST fail if unavailable services
are requested. As a result, individual RADIUS attributes MUST NOT be
encoded as Information Elements or sub-elements within IAPP. Rather,
RADIUS attribues are encoded as a unit within the RADIUS sub-element.
This enables  the correct processing to occur. While a device may ignore
an entire Information Element or sub-element, once the Information
Element or sub-element is recognized it must be processed in its
entirety.



Aboba & Moore                 Informational                     [Page 7]





INTERNET-DRAFT  A Model for IEEE 802.1X Context Transfer  28 August 2001


Among other things, this approach enables the context transfer operation
to be independent of the supported AAA protocol.  For example, a device
supporting both Diameter and RADIUS could include sub-elements for both
protocols. This would enable transfer of context to a new device
supporting either protocol.

2.3.  Information Element format

Within IAPP, Information Elements have the following structure:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|       Element Identifier        |            Length           |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                          Information...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Element Identifier

   The Element Identifier field is two octets. It identifies the
   enclosed Information Element.

   TBD - Element Identifier for AAA

Length

   The Length field is two octets. It encodes the length of the
   Information Element, including the Element Identifier, Length and
   Information fields.

Information

   The Information field is variable length. It encodes the Information
   Element.

AAA sub-elements are encoded within the Information field as follows:

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|       Organization Unique Identifier            |     Type    |
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                             Data...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Organization Unique Identifier (OUI)




Aboba & Moore                 Informational                     [Page 8]





INTERNET-DRAFT  A Model for IEEE 802.1X Context Transfer  28 August 2001


   The OUI is a three octet field, encoding the Organization Unique
   Identifier. An OUI of zero is used for standardized sub-elements.
   Non-zero OUIs can be used to support vendor-specific sub-elements.

Type

   The type field is one octet, and represents the AAA protocol type:

   1 = RADIUS 2 = Diameter

Data

   The Data field is of variable length, and contains the context to be
   transferred. For RADIUS this consists of a list of attributes.

2.4.  Usage guidelines for the RADIUS sub-element

RADIUS context is established solely by Access-Accept messages, and
therefore the bulk of RADIUS attributes includable within the RADIUS
sub-element are those that may be included within an Access-Accept, as
described in [4]-[6]. There are two exceptions: the Acct-Authentic and
Acct-Multi-SessionId accounting attributes.  The attributes allowable
for use with transfers of IEEE 802.1X context are described in Appendix
A.

Acct-Authentic encodes the authentication technique utilized on the old
access point: RADIUS, Local or Remote. A value of RADIUS denotes
authentication against a backend RADIUS server; Local means that the
user authenticated against the local database on the old device; Remote
means that a AAA protocol other than RADIUS was used.

Typically, it does not make sense to transfer context of sessions
established by local authentication.  This violates the Equivalency
Principle because context established via local authentication will not
in general be the same as the context that would be established by
carrying out a conversation with the AAA server.  In order to guard
against inappropriate context transfers, the new device SHOULD examine
the authentication status prior to deciding to accept the context
transfer.

Acct-Multi-SessionId enables linkage of accounting records from related
sessions. As described in [24], it is possible to maintain the same
Acct-Multi-SessionId as a user moves between devices.  To enable this,
it is necessary to include the Acct-Multi-SessionId in the context
transfer.






Aboba & Moore                 Informational                     [Page 9]





INTERNET-DRAFT  A Model for IEEE 802.1X Context Transfer  28 August 2001


3.  Open issues

There are open issues relating to transfer of the Message-Authenticator
and EAP-Message attributes. Assuming that the IAPP protocol provides
support for confidentiality, then transfer of an additional integrity
check (Message-Authenticator) is not strictly necessary. However, in
order to provide strict conformance to the Equivalency Principle, it may
be desirable to provide this attribute as well, to enable the RADIUS
client processing logic to be invoked without modification.

Similarly, since the IEEE 802.1X backend state machine is driven purely
by the authentication outcome, not by the contents of the EAP-Message
attribute, transferring this attribute is not strictly necessary.

4.  Security considerations


4.1.  Trust issues

Implicit within our context transfer model is trust between devices
engaging in a context transfer.  Since the new device will act on the
context transfer as though it had been given the service instructions by
a trusted AAA server, it is necessary for the new device to trust the
old device.

In transfer of context across administrative domains, such a level of
trust may not be possible or appropriate. Therefore it is possible for
context transfer to fail even in situations where the devices are
homogeneous, due to lack of trust between administrative domains.

Another implication of the "Equivalency Principle" is that the context
transfer protocol SHOULD provide the same level of security as the AAA
protocol whose context is being transferred. For example, where the AAA
protocol is using IPSEC to provide confidentiality, it does not make
sense for the context transfer protocol to use shared secret-based
hiding.

4.2.  Confidentiality

AAA protocol messages may include attributes requiring confidentiality.
This includes user passwords, encryption keys, or tunnel passwords. In
order to transfer these attributes securely, confidentiality is
required.  Following the Equivalency Principle, attributes are processed
as though they came from the AAA server. This includes security
processing.  As a result, existing AAA security mechanisms are used in
order to ensure confidentiality.





Aboba & Moore                 Informational                    [Page 10]





INTERNET-DRAFT  A Model for IEEE 802.1X Context Transfer  28 August 2001


This can be accomplished in two ways. As described in [4], RADIUS
attributes can be encrypted using the shared secret shared by the new
device and the AAA server. Alternatively, if IPSEC is supported, ESP
with a non-null transform can be used to provide confidentiality, as
described in [23]. In this case, if a shared secret does not exist, then
a null shared secret is assumed.

5.  References


[1]  Blunk, L., Vollbrecht, J., "PPP Extensible Authentication Protocol
     (EAP)", RFC 2284, March 1998.

[2]  Rivest, R., Dusse, S., "The MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm", RFC
     1321, April 1992.

[3]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
     Levels", RFC 2119, March, 1997.

[4]  Rigney, C., Rubens, A., Simpson, W., Willens, S.,  "Remote
     Authentication Dial In User Service (RADIUS)", RFC 2865, June 2000.

[5]  Rigney, C., "RADIUS Accounting", RFC 2866, June 2000.

[6]  Rigney, C., Willats, W., Calhoun, P., "RADIUS Extensions", RFC
     2869, June 2000.

[7]  IEEE Standards for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks: Overview
     and Architecture, ANSI/IEEE Std 802, 1990.

[8]  ISO/IEC 10038 Information technology - Telecommunications and
     information exchange between systems - Local area networks - Media
     Access Control (MAC) Bridges, (also ANSI/IEEE Std 802.1D- 1993),
     1993.

[9]  ISO/IEC Final CD 15802-3 Information technology - Tele-
     communications and information exchange between systems - Local and
     metropolitan area networks - Common specifications - Part 3:Media
     Access Control (MAC) bridges, (current draft available as IEEE
     P802.1D/D15).

[10] IEEE Standards for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks: Draft
     Standard for Virtual Bridged Local Area Networks, P802.1Q/D8,
     January 1998.

[11] ISO/IEC 8802-3 Information technology - Telecommunications and
     information exchange between systems - Local and metropolitan area
     networks - Common specifications - Part 3:  Carrier Sense Multiple



Aboba & Moore                 Informational                    [Page 11]





INTERNET-DRAFT  A Model for IEEE 802.1X Context Transfer  28 August 2001


     Access with Collision Detection (CSMA/CD) Access Method and
     Physical Layer Specifications, (also ANSI/IEEE Std 802.3- 1996),
     1996.

[12] IEEE Standards for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks: Demand
     Priority Access Method, Physical Layer and Repeater Specification
     For 100 Mb/s Operation, IEEE Std 802.12-1995.

[13] IEEE Standards for Local and Metropolitan Area Networks: Port based
     Network Access Control, IEEE Std 802.1X-2001, June 2001.

[14] Droms, R., "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol", RFC 2131, March
     1997.

[15] Yergeau, F., "UTF-8, a transformation format of Unicode and ISO
     10646", RFC 2044, October 1996.

[16] Aboba, B., Beadles, M., "The Network Access Identifier", RFC 2486,
     January 1999.

[17] Alvestrand, H. and T. Narten, "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
     Considerations Section in RFCs", BCP 26, RFC 2434, October 1998.

[18] Dobbertin, H., "The Status of MD5 After a Recent Attack."
     CryptoBytes Vol.2 No.2, Summer 1996.

[19] Atkinson, R., "Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol",
     RFC 1825, August 1995.

[20] Zorn, G., Leifer, D., Rubens, A., Shriver, J., Holdrege, M.,
     Goyret, I., "RADIUS Attributes for Tunnel Protocol Support", RFC
     2868, June 2000.

[21] Zorn, G., Mitton, D., Aboba, B., "RADIUS Accounting Modifications
     for Tunnel Protocol Support", RFC 2867, June 2000.

[22] Information technology - Telecommunications and information
     exchange between systems - Local and metropolitan area networks -
     Specific Requirements Part 11:  Wireless LAN Medium Access Control
     (MAC) and Physical Layer (PHY) Specifications, IEEE Std.
     802.11-1997, 1997.

[23] Aboba, B., Zorn, G., Mitton, D.,"RADIUS and IPv6", RFC 3162, August
     2001.

[24] Congdon, P., Et al. "IEEE 802.1X Usage Guidelines", Internet draft
     (work in progress), draft-congdon-radius-8021x-16.txt, August 2001.




Aboba & Moore                 Informational                    [Page 12]





INTERNET-DRAFT  A Model for IEEE 802.1X Context Transfer  28 August 2001


6.  IANA Considerations

This specification does not create any RADIUS attributes nor any new
number spaces for IANA administration.















































Aboba & Moore                 Informational                    [Page 13]





INTERNET-DRAFT  A Model for IEEE 802.1X Context Transfer  28 August 2001


Appendix A - Table of Attributes

The following table provides a guide to which attributes are sent and
received as part of IEEE 802.1X authentication, and which attributes are
considered part of the "context" to be transferred during roaming. L3
denotes attributes that will be understood only by switches or access
points implementing Layer 3 capabilities.


802.1X     Context    #    Attribute
  X           X       1   User-Name [4]
                      2   User-Password [4]
                      3   CHAP-Password [4]
  X                   4   NAS-IP-Address [4]
  X                   5   NAS-Port [4]
  X           X       6   Service-Type [4]
                      7   Framed-Protocol [4]
                      8   Framed-IP-Address [4]
                      9   Framed-IP-Netmask [4]
  L3          X      10   Framed-Routing [4]
  X           X      11   Filter-Id [4]
  X           X      12   Framed-MTU [4]
                     13   Framed-Compression [4]
  L3          X      14   Login-IP-Host [4]
  L3          X      15   Login-Service [4]
  L3          X      16   Login-TCP-Port [4]
  X           X      18   Reply-Message [4]
                     19   Callback-Number [4]
                     20   Callback-Id [4]
  L3          X      22   Framed-Route [4]
  L3          X      23   Framed-IPX-Network [4]
  X           X      24   State [4]
  X           X      25   Class [4]
  X           X      26   Vendor-Specific [4]
  X           X      27   Session-Timeout [4]
  X           X      28   Idle-Timeout [4]
  X           X      29   Termination-Action [4]
  X                  30   Called-Station-Id [4]
  X                  31   Calling-Station-Id [4]
  X                  32   NAS-Identifier [4]
  X                  33   Proxy-State [4]
                     34   Login-LAT-Service [4]
                     35   Login-LAT-Node [4]
                     36   Login-LAT-Group [4]
802.1X        #   Attribute






Aboba & Moore                 Informational                    [Page 14]





INTERNET-DRAFT  A Model for IEEE 802.1X Context Transfer  28 August 2001


802.1X        #   Attribute
  L3          X      37   Framed-AppleTalk-Link [4]
  L3          X      38   Framed-AppleTalk-Network [4]
  L3          X      39   Framed-AppleTalk-Zone [4]
  X                  40   Acct-Status-Type [5]
  X                  41   Acct-Delay-Time [5]
  X                  42   Acct-Input-Octets [5]
  X                  43   Acct-Output-Octets [5]
  X                  44   Acct-Session-Id [5]
  X           X      45   Acct-Authentic [5]
  X                  46   Acct-Session-Time [5]
  X                  47   Acct-Input-Packets [5]
  X                  48   Acct-Output-Packets [5]
  X                  49   Acct-Terminate-Cause [5]
  X           X      50   Acct-Multi-Session-Id [5]
                     51   Acct-Link-Count [5]
  X                  52   Acct-Input-Gigawords [6]
  X                  53   Acct-Output-Gigawords [6]
  X                  55   Event-Timestamp [6]
                     60   CHAP-Challenge [4]
  X           X      61   NAS-Port-Type [4]
                     62   Port-Limit [4]
                     63   Login-LAT-Port [4]
  X           X      64   Tunnel-Type [20]
  X           X      65   Tunnel-Medium-Type [20]
  L3          X      66   Tunnel-Client-Endpoint [20]
  L3          X      67   Tunnel-Server-Endpoint [20]
  L3          X      68   Acct-Tunnel-Connection [21]
  L3          X      69   Tunnel-Password [20]
                     70   ARAP-Password [6]
                     71   ARAP-Features [6]
                     72   ARAP-Zone-Access [6]
                     73   ARAP-Security [6]
                     74   ARAP-Security-Data [6]
                     75   Password-Retry [6]
                     76   Prompt [6]
  X                  77   Connect-Info [6]
  X                  78   Configuration-Token [6]
  X                  79   EAP-Message [6]
  X                  80   Message-Authenticator [6]
  X           X      81   Tunnel-Private-Group-ID [20]
  L3          X      82   Tunnel-Assignment-ID [20]
  X           X      83   Tunnel-Preference [20]
                     84   ARAP-Challenge-Response [6]
802.1X        #   Attribute






Aboba & Moore                 Informational                    [Page 15]





INTERNET-DRAFT  A Model for IEEE 802.1X Context Transfer  28 August 2001


802.1X        #   Attribute
  X                  85   Acct-Interim-Interval [6]
  X                  86   Acct-Tunnel-Packets-Lost [21]
  X                  87   NAS-Port-Id [6]
                     88   Framed-Pool [6]
  L3          X      90   Tunnel-Client-Auth-ID [20]
  L3          X      91   Tunnel-Server-Auth-ID [20]
  X                  95   NAS-IPv6-Address [23]
                     96   Framed-Interface-Id [23]
  L3          X      97   Framed-IPv6-Prefix [23]
  L3          X      98   Login-IPv6-Host [23]
  L3          X      99   Framed-IPv6-Route [23]
  L3          X     100   Framed-IPv6-Pool [23]
802.1X     Context    #    Attribute


Key
===

802.1X    = Allowed for use with IEEE 802.1X
Context   = Transferred during roaming if available
L3        = implemented only on switches/access points with Layer 3
            capabilities

Acknowledgments

The authors would like to acknowledge Bob O'Hara of Informed Technology
and Dave Bagby of 3Com for contributions to this document.

Authors' Addresses

Bernard Aboba
Tim Moore
Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA 98052

EMail: {bernarda, timmoore}@microsoft.com
Phone: +1 425 882 8080
Fax:   +1 425 936 7329

Intellectual Property Statement

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed to  pertain
to the implementation or use of the technology described in this
document or the extent to which any license under such rights might or
might not be available; neither does it represent that it has made any



Aboba & Moore                 Informational                    [Page 16]





INTERNET-DRAFT  A Model for IEEE 802.1X Context Transfer  28 August 2001


effort to identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's
procedures with respect to rights in standards-track and standards-
related documentation can be found in BCP-11.  Copies of claims of
rights made available for publication and any assurances of licenses to
be made available, or the result of an attempt made to obtain a general
license or permission for the use of such proprietary rights by
implementors or users of this specification can be obtained from the
IETF Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights
which may cover technology that may be required to practice this
standard.  Please address the information to the IETF Executive
Director.

Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.
This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.  The limited permissions granted above are
perpetual and will not be revoked by the Internet Society or its
successors or assigns.  This document and the information contained
herein is provided on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE
INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."

Expiration Date

This memo is filed as <draft-aboba-802-context-01.txt>,  and  expires
February 16, 2002.









Aboba & Moore                 Informational                    [Page 17]


