INTERNET-DRAFT
draft-ietf-ldup-subentry-00.txt
                                                               Ed Reed
                                                          Novell, Inc.
                                                       August 15, 1999

                         LDAP Subentry Schema


1. Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups. Note that other
groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time. It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt.

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

This Internet-Draft expires on January 9, 1999.


2. Abstract

This document describes an object class called lDAPsubEntry which MAY
be used to indicate operations and management related entries in the
directory, called LDAP Subentries.

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and  "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 [RFC2119]. The
sections below reiterate these definitions and include some additional
ones.







Reed                                                         [Page 1]
                       Expires January 15, 2000


INTERNET-DRAFT                                         15 August 1999
                         LDAP Subentry Schema

3. Definition


3.1 LDAPsubEntry Class

( 1.3.6.1.4.1.1466.115.121.1.?? NAME 'LDAPsubEntry'
   DESC 'LDAP Subentry class, named by cn'
     SUP top STRUCTURAL
     MUST ( cn ) )

The class lDAPsubEntry is intended to be used as a super class when
defining other structural classes to be used as LDAP Subentries.  The
presence of lDAPsubEntry in the list of super-classes of an entry in
the directory makes that entry an LDAP Subentry.  Object classes
derived from lDAPsubEntry are themselves considered lDAPsubEntry
classes, for the purpose of this discussion.

LDAP Subentries MAY be named by their commonName attribute [LDAPv3].
Other naming attributes are also permitted.

LDAP Subentries MAY be containers, unlike their [X.500] counterparts.

LDAP Subentries MAY be contained by, and will usually be located in
the directory information tree immediately subordinate to,
administrative points and/or naming contexts [LDUPINFO].  Further
(unlike X.500 subentries), LDAP Subentries MAY be contained by other
LDAP Subentries (the way organizational units may be contained by
other organizational units).  Deep nestings of LDAP Subentries are
discouraged, but not prohibited.

LDAP Subentries SHOULD be treated as "operational objects" in much the
same way that "operational attributes" are not regularly provided in
search results and read operations when only user attributes are
requested).

NOTE:  No special treatment of LDAP Subentries by applications is
required, but it might be worth considering creating an LDAPv3 control
to indicate when LDAP Subentries are desired to be returned (subject
to access controls and search filters, of course) for LDAP search
operations.



4. Security Considerations

LDAP Subentries will frequently be used to hold data which reflects
either the actual or intended behavior of the directory service.  As
such, permission to read such entries MAY need to be restricted to

Reed                                                         [Page 2]
                       Expires January 15, 2000


INTERNET-DRAFT                                         15 August 1999
                         LDAP Subentry Schema

authorized users.  More importantly, IF a directory service treats the
information in an LDAP Subentry as the authoritative source of policy
to be used to control the behavior of the directory, then permission
to create, modify, or delete such entries MUST be carefully restricted
to authorized administrators.



5. References

[LDUPINFO] _ E. Reed, "LDUP Replication Information Model", draft-
ietf-ldup-infomod-01.txt

[LDAPv3] Kille, S., Wahl, M., and T. Howes, "Lightweight Directory
Access Protocol (v3)", RFC 2251, December 1997

[X.500] ITU-T Rec. X.501, "The Directory: Models", 1993



6. Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1999). All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
included on all such copies and derivative works. However, this
document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of developing
Internet standards in which case the procedures for copyrights defined
in the Internet Standards process must be followed, or as required to
translate it into languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
"AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT
NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN
WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."



Reed                                                         [Page 3]
                       Expires January 15, 2000


INTERNET-DRAFT                                         15 August 1999
                         LDAP Subentry Schema

7. Acknowledgements

The use of subEntry object class to store Replica and Replication
Agreement information is due primarily to the lucid explanation by
Mark Wahl, Innosoft, of how they could be used and extended.

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed to pertain
to the implementation or use of the technology described in this
document or the extent to which any license under such rights might or
might not be available; neither does it represent that it has made any
effort to identify any such rights. Information on the IETF's
procedures with respect to rights in standards-track and standards-
related documentation can be found in BCP-11. Copies of claims of
rights made available for publication and any assurances of licenses
to be made available, or the result of an attempt made to obtain a
general license or permission for the use of such proprietary rights
by implementors or users of this specification can be obtained from
the IETF Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary
rights which may cover technology that may be required to practice
this standard. Please address the information to the IETF Executive
Director.


8. Author's Address

     Edwards E. Reed
     Novell, Inc.
     122 E 1700 S
     Provo, UT   84606
     USA
     E-mail: Ed_Reed@Novell.com

     LDUP Mailing List: ietf-ldup@imc.org












Reed                                                         [Page 4]
                       Expires January 15, 2000
