Network Working Group                                          R. Penno
Internet Draft                                         
Expires: July 2003
          
          
     Distributed End-Point Firewall Control (DEFCon) Applicability 
                              Scenarios
                                       
                    draft-penno-defcon-appl-00.txt 
                                       
                                       
     
Status of this Memo

   This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with
   all provisions of Section 10 of [RFC 2026]. Internet-Drafts are
   working documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its
   areas, and its working groups. Note that other groups may also
   distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six 
   months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents
   at any time. It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html

   Distribution of this document is unlimited.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001). All Rights Reserved.
     
    Abstract 
     
  This document discusses the use of a distributed end-point 
  firewall control (DEFCon) in various network deployment scenarios. 


1.Introduction

The applicability scenarios for Defcon can be divided into four 
categories. 

a) Scenarios where a perimeter firewall cannot provide adequate 
security when compared to a distributed firewall or there are severe 
scaling and security issues, e.g., applying firewall to encrypted 
traffic. 

b) Scenarios where a distributed firewall complements the perimeter 
firewall functionality

Penno             draft-penno-defcon-appl-00.txt               [Page 1]

Internet-Draft    Defcon Applicability Scenarios          December 2002


c) Scenarios where the same functionality can be achieved by a 
distributed or a perimeter firewall

d) Scenarios where a distributed firewall wouldn't work with a 
perimeter firewall

The applicability scenarios could also be divided based whether the 
differences, when compared to perimeter firewalls, are mostly tied to 
traffic inspection or network topology.

*Network Topology

Mobility (Wireless)
Telecommuting
Broadband Internet Access
  Separation Between access and service provider
Protection from Insiders

*Traffic Inspection

Encrypted Traffic
Personal Firewall
High touch services Firewall

In this document we will examine each scenario on the list above and 
will conclude with a brief discussion pointing out if the scenario 
belongs to category a, b, c or d.

2. Applicability Scenarios for Defcon

2.1 Mobility

In the case the user access the Internet through his mobile phone, 
although his ISP could provide a network based firewall solution, when 
he is roaming this service might not be available.

In this case his ISP could push a firewall policy that could take 
effect when the user roams to an area services by a different wireless 
provider. Of course the mobile phone could contact the management 
station of his native ISP and pull the appropriate policies for a 
roaming user.

An interesting situation could occur if the roaming network has 
its own set of policies, that it wishes to enforce on roaming nodes 
in its network - since a compromised or rogue node could
issue a DoS attack from this other network. In this case there should 
be a mechanism in place to decide which polices to use, knowing that 
might exist conflicting or overlapping policies.




Penno             draft-penno-defcon-appl-00.txt               [Page 2]

Internet-Draft    Defcon Applicability Scenarios          December 2002


2.2 Telecommuting

Certain corporations have a strict policy in what types of traffic or 
applications their employees can use inside their premises or when 
using a device that belongs to the company outside its premises.
 
Corporations are also usually concerned about security relating to 
confidential or sensitive material that can be stored on employees 
laptop or desktops. 

The solution to this problem is to employ a distributed end point 
firewall where the corporation can guarantee that their employees are 
only using approved applications and their computers are protected by a 
firewall if they are accessing the Internet outside the company's premises.

Another solution for telecommuters could be to use a encryption 
protocol such as IPsec to connect to his company and then send and 
receive all traffic through this connection, which would be protected 
by the company's firewall.

A disadvantage with the second approach is the delay introduced due to 
the routing of all internet traffic through the corporate network, 
which will also add unnecessary load to it. 

2.3 Broadband Internet Access

In Broadband deployments is very common for subscribers to make use of 
firewall software installed on their hosts or built-in in their access 
devices (cable/xdsl modem, switch, etc). The problem is that very often 
subscribers do not have the technical expertise to configure their 
firewalls appropriately. 

Two solutions exist to this problem. The first one, which is used 
today, is to use a Broadband RAS that has the ability to offer network 
or virtual firewalls. The access provider configures a customized 
firewall for each subscriber based on its userid, class (e.g., 
*@ispA.com) or some other means of identification (e.g, virtual 
circuit). The subscriber of course also has the ability to change the 
rules of its virtual firewall.

The second one would be to employ a distributed firewall solution where 
the access provider also configure the firewall on behalf of the 
subscriber and push the firewall rules to each of the subscribers' 
hosts. It is assumed that the subscriber should be able to change its 
firewall rules and when a new machine connects to the network it could 
pull the appropriate firewall policy based on the userid using the host 
or some other means of identification (e.g., IP address).

In this scenario, with the exception of encrypted traffic, the same 
functionality can be achieved by a distributed or network based 

Penno             draft-penno-defcon-appl-00.txt               [Page 3]

Internet-Draft    Defcon Applicability Scenarios          December 2002

firewall. The choice between the two methods would be based on ease of 
configuration, software cost, management overhead, etc, etc

Of course methods, network and end point based firewalls, could be used 
complementing each other.

2.3.1 Separation between Access and Service Provider [TBD]

2.4 Encrypted Traffic

In the case where users inside the perimeter firewall use encrypted 
communication with outside parties, is not possible or extremely 
troublesome for the firewall to inspect the packets. Potential 
solutions not only require the firewall to become a trusted entity but 
also incur in a high processing demand.

An end point firewall would be the most adequate choice in this case.

2.5 Personal Firewall

Independent of the network deployment scenario, there are cases where 
the firewall policy to be applied to a device or access connection is 
based on the identity of the user connected or using the device.

For example, in a household different content filtering policies are 
applied depending on identification of the user. Or in corporation 
certain employees might have a different access restriction than 
others. 

Most perimeter firewalls apply its rules based solely on layer 3 or 4 
information contained in the packet. When the IP addresses allocated to 
hosts are dynamic, there is no mapping between users and source IP 
address. In this case only a distributed end point firewall that could 
reside on the host and apply different policies based on the user 
identification would be an adequate solution.

An exception would be broadband Internet deployment where an access 
protocol that carries user identification (e.g., PPPx) is used and a 
customized network firewall policy can be applied.

2.6 High Touch Services Firewall

Firewalls nowadays are being required to implement demanding or 
specialized services such as content filtering, virus scanning, 
active code parsing, etc. These services impose a burden that 
depending on the number of users the firewall cannot handle. 

There are some solutions to this problem. The first one would be to 
employ specialized devices where the firewall (in this case an OPES 
processor) would send the traffic to be scanned, filtered, etc [OPES-
Arch][OPES-Cases]. There could be as many specialized devices as 
needed.

Authors           draft-penno-defcon-appl-00.txt               [Page 4]

Internet-Draft    Defcon Applicability Scenarios          December 2002

The second one would be to employ a distributed firewall solution and 
relinquish these demanding or specialized tasks to the end nodes.

In this scenario the same functionality can be achieved by a 
distributed or network based firewall. The decision between the two 
models would be based on software availability, license costs, 
scalability, management overhead and others.


[OPES-Arch]  A. Barbir et. al, "An Architecture for Open Pluggable Edge
        Services (OPES)", Internet-Draft: http://www.ietf.org/internet-
        drafts/draft-ietf-opes-architecture-03.txt, Aug 2002.

[OPES-Cases]  A. Barbir et. al, "OPES Use Cases and Deployment 
        Scenarios", Internet-Draft: http://www.ietf.org/internet-
        drafts/draft-ietf-opes-architecture-02.txt, July 2002.

[Bel99]  S.M. Bellovin, "Distributed Firewalls", USENIX ;login
         magazine, special issue on security, November 1999.


[IKBS]  Ioannidis, S. and Keromytis, A.D., and Bellovin, S.M.  and
          J.M. Smith, "Implementing a Distributed Firewall",
          Proceedings of Computer and Communications Security
          (CCS), pp. 190-199, November 2000, Athens, Greece.

[Defcon-Req] R. Sahita, " Distributed/End-Point Firewall Control 
       (DEFCon) Requirements", draft-many-defcon-reqs-00.txt, 

3. Authors' Addresses 

   R. Penno
   EMail: rapenno@yahoo.com 

4. Acknowledgements

   Thanks to Ravi Sahita for his comments.  
          
    Full Copyright Statement 
     
    Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2002).  All Rights Reserved. 
     
    This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to 
    others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain 
    it or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, 
    published and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction 
    of any kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this 
    paragraph are included on all such copies and derivative works.  
    However, this document itself may not be modified in any way, such 
    as by removing the copyright notice or references to the Internet 
    Society or other Internet organizations, except as needed for the 
    purpose of developing Internet standards in which case the 

Penno             draft-penno-defcon-appl-00.txt               [Page 5]

Internet-Draft    Defcon Applicability Scenarios          December 2002

    procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process 
    must be followed, or as required to translate it into languages 
    other than English. 

    The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be 
    revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns. 
     
    This document and the information contained herein is provided on 
    an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET 
    ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR 
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF 
    THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED 
    WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 
     
    Acknowledgement 
     
    Funding for the RFC Editor function is currently provided by the 
    Internet Society. 

