





                     Definitions of Managed Objects
                             for APPN TRAPS

                              May 14, 1998


                         Bob Clouston (editor)
                             Cisco Systems
                           clouston@cisco.com



                           Bob Moore (editor)
                            IBM Corporation
                           remoore@us.ibm.com



                 <draft-ietf-snanau-appntrapmib-00.txt>



Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet Draft.  Internet Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its Areas, and
its Working Groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet Drafts.

Internet Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months.
Internet Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
documents at any time.  It is not appropriate to use Internet Drafts as
reference material or to cite them other than as a "working draft" or
"work in progress."

Please check the I-D abstract listing contained in each Internet Draft
directory to learn the current status of this or any Internet Draft.
Distribution of this document is unlimited.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1998).  All Rights Reserved.

Abstract

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for



Expires November 14, 1998                                       [Page 1]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for receiving notifications from network
devices with APPN (Advanced Peer-to-Peer Network) and DLUR (Dependent LU
Requester) capabilities.  This memo identifies notifications for the
APPN and DLUR architecture.

This memo does not specify a standard for the Internet community.

1.  Introduction

This document is a product of the SNA NAU Services MIB Working Group.
It defines a MIB module for notifications for devices with Advanced
Peer-to-Peer Networking (APPN) and Dependent LU Requester (DLUR)
capabilities.

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 [13].


2.  The SNMP Network Management Framework

The SNMP Network Management Framework presently consists of six major
components.  They are:

o    the overall architecture, described in RFC 2271 [7].

o    the SMI, described in RFC 1902 [3], - the mechanisms used for
     describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.

o    the MIB-II, STD 17, RFC 1213 [2], - the core set of managed objects
     for the Internet suite of protocols.

o    the protocol, RFC 1157 [1] and/or RFC 1905 [6] and/or RFC 2272 [8]
     -- the protocol for accessing managed information.

o    the user-based security model defined in RFC 2274 [10].

o    the view-based access control model defined in RFC 2275 [11].

Textual conventions are defined in RFC 1903 [4], and conformance
statements are defined in RFC 1904 [5].  Common applications are defined
in RFC 2273 [9].

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.



Expires November 14, 1998                                       [Page 2]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


This memo specifies a MIB module that is compliant to the SMIv2.  A MIB
conforming to the SMIv1 can be produced through the appropriate
translation.


3.  Overview

This document identifies the set of objects for reporting the status of
devices with APPN and DLUR capabilities via notifications.  See the
SNANAU APPN MIB [14] and SNANAU DLUR MIB [15] for the objects for
monitoring the configuration and active characteristics of the devices
with APPN and DLUR capabilities.

The SNANAU APPN MIB allows a management station to collect the network
topology of an APPN network (the network nodes (NNs) in the network and
all of transmission groups (TGs) between the network nodes) from an APPN
device.  It also allows the management station to collect the local
topology (TGs to end stations, and locally defined ports and link
stations) from an APPN device.  While the SNANAU APPN MIB has an
efficient way to poll the APPN device for updates to the network
topology, using flow reduction sequence numbers (FRSNs) as a table
index; it does not have a mechanism to poll the local topology tables
(appnLocalTgTable, appnPortTable, and appnLsTable) for updates.  To
learn about updates, deletions, and additions to the local topology, the
management station must retrieve the complete tables and examine them.

This MIB provides a mechanism for an APPN device to send notifications
to inform the management station of updates, deletions, and additions to
these tables.  A notification is defined for each of these tables.

Each notification always contains an object which is a count of the
number of times this table has changed since the APPN node was last
reinitialized.  This enables a management station to detect that it has
missed a notification, if it does not get the notifications in numerical
sequence.  If the notifications are not in sequence, the management
station should retrieve the entire table to get the correct status for
all rows.

Each notification also contains an object indicating whether the
notification is reporting an addition, deletion, or modification of the
row.  If the notification is an addition, all of the objects listed in
the notification.  If it is a deletion, it only returns one of the
objects so that the management station can use the row index to
determine which row was deleted.  If it is a modifcation, only those
objects in the row that were modified are included in the notification.




Expires November 14, 1998                                       [Page 3]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


Similarly, the SNANAU DLUR MIB provides a mechanism for retrieving the
configuration and status of dependent LU server (DLUS) sessions on a
device with DLUR capabilities.  This MIB defines a notification for the
addition, deletion, or modification of a row in the dlurDlusTable, in
the manner described above.

The SNANAU APPN MIB also provides a mechanism for a management station
to collect traffic statistics on intermediate sessions, primarily for
accounting purposes.  However, when the session is terminated, all
statistics from the last poll until the session termination time are
lost, since the row for that session is deleted from the appnIsInTable.
This MIB defines a notification so that the session's final statistics
can be sent to a management station.

Highlights of the management functions supported by the APPN TRAP MIB
module include the following:


o    A notification for the addition, deletion, or modification of an
     APPN local TG.

o    A notification for the addition, deletion, or modification of an
     APPN port.

o    A notification for the addition, deletion, or modification of an
     APPN link station.

o    A notification for the addition, deletion, or modification of a
     DLUR-DLUS sesion.

o    A notification for reporting final APPN intermediate session
     statistics.


This MIB module does not support:


o    Objects to query the configuration or status of APPN nodes on
     demand.

3.1.  APPN TRAP MIB Structure

The APPN TRAP MIB module contains a group of notifications, and a group
of supporting objects.

The group of notifications consists of the following notifications:



Expires November 14, 1998                                       [Page 4]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


1) appnIsrAccountingDataTrap

This notification is generated by an APPN device when an intermediate
session is terminating, to report the final accounting statistics of the
session.

2) appnLocalTgTopoChangeTrap

This notification identifies an addition, deletion, or modification to a
row of the SNANAU APPN MIB appnLocalTgTable.

3) appnPortChangeTrap

This notification identifies an addition, deletion, or modification to a
row of the SNANAU APPN MIB appnPortTable.

4) appnLsChangeTrap

This notification identifies an addition, deletion, or modification to a
row of the SNANAU APPN MIB appnLsTable.

5) dlurDlusChangeTrap

This notification identifies an addition, deletion, or modification to a
row of the SNANAU DLUR MIB dlurDlusTable.


The group of supporting objects contains the appnTrapControl object,
which controls whether the APPN device generates each type of
notification.  Note that generation of the appnIsrAccountingDataTrap is
not controlled by this object; instead it is controlled by the
appnIsInGlobalCtrAdminStatus object in the SNANAU APPN MIB.

Although APPN notification generation could be controlled solely by
entries in the snmpNotificationMIB, RFC 2273 [9], the appnTrapControl
object exists in this MIB so that implementations are not required to
implement SNMPv3 to control generation of APPN notifications.  If
appnTrapControl enables APPN notifications, snmpNotificationMIB entries
could disable them.

Also contained in this group are objects for the TG, port, link, and
DLUR-DLUS session notifications to indicate the number of times each of
the tables has changed since the APPN node was last reinitialized, and
to indicate whether a particular notification is reporting an addition,
deletion, or modification of a row in the table.




Expires November 14, 1998                                       [Page 5]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


4.  Definitions

APPN-TRAP-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS

        Counter32, OBJECT-TYPE, MODULE-IDENTITY,
        NOTIFICATION-TYPE
                FROM SNMPv2-SMI

        TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
                FROM SNMPv2-TC

        MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP, NOTIFICATION-GROUP
                FROM SNMPv2-CONF

        appnMIB, appnIsInP2SFmdPius, appnIsInS2PFmdPius,
        appnIsInP2SNonFmdPius, appnIsInS2PNonFmdPius,
        appnIsInP2SFmdBytes, appnIsInS2PFmdBytes,
        appnIsInP2SNonFmdBytes, appnIsInS2PNonFmdBytes,
        appnIsInSessUpTime, appnObjects,
        appnLocalTgDestVirtual, appnLocalTgDlcData,
        appnLocalTgPortName, appnLocalTgQuiescing,
        appnLocalTgOperational, appnLocalTgCpCpSession,
        appnLocalTgEffCap, appnLocalTgConnCost,
        appnLocalTgByteCost, appnLocalTgSecurity,
        appnLocalTgDelay, appnLocalTgUsr1,
        appnLocalTgUsr2, appnLocalTgUsr3,
        appnLocalTgHprSup, appnLocalTgIntersubnet,
        appnLocalTgMltgLinkType, appnLocalTgBranchLinkType,
        appnPortOperState, appnPortDlcType,
        appnPortPortType, appnPortSIMRIM,
        appnPortLsRole, appnPortNegotLs,
        appnPortDynamicLinkSupport, appnPortMaxRcvBtuSize,
        appnPortMaxIframeWindow, appnPortSpecific,
        appnPortDlcLocalAddr, appnPortCounterDisconTime,
        appnLsOperState, appnLsPortName,
        appnLsDlcType, appnLsDynamic,
        appnLsAdjCpName, appnLsAdjNodeType,
        appnLsTgNum, appnLsLimResource,
        appnLsActOnDemand, appnLsMigration,
        appnLsPartnerNodeId, appnLsCpCpSessionSupport,
        appnLsMaxSendBtuSize, appnLsSpecific,
        appnLsHprSup, appnLsErrRecoSup,
        appnLsForAnrLabel, appnLsRevAnrLabel,
        appnLsCpCpNceId, appnLsRouteNceId,



Expires November 14, 1998                                       [Page 6]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


        appnLsBfNceId, appnLsLocalAddr,


        appnLsRemoteAddr, appnLsRemoteLsName,
        appnLsCounterDisconTime, appnCompliances, appnGroups
                 FROM APPN-MIB

        dlurDlusSessnStatus
                 FROM APPN-DLUR-MIB;

appnTrapMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
        LAST-UPDATED  "9805130000Z" -- May 13, 1998
        ORGANIZATION  "IETF SNA NAU MIB WG / AIW APPN MIBs SIG"
        CONTACT-INFO

                "
                        Bob Clouston
                        Cisco Systems
                        7025 Kit Creek Road
                        P.O. Box 14987
                        Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA
                        Tel:    1 919 472 2333
                        E-mail: clouston@cisco.com

                        Bob Moore
                        IBM Corporation
                        4205 S. Miami Boulevard
                        BRQA/501
                        P.O. Box 12195
                        Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA
                        Tel:    1 919 254 4436
                        E-mail: remoore@us.ibm.com
                "
      DESCRIPTION
                "This MIB module defines notifications to be generated by
                network devices with APPN capabilities.  It presupposes
                support for the APPN MIB (RFC 2155).  It also presupposes
                support for the DLUR MIB (RFC 2232) for implementations
                that support the DLUR-related groups."

::= { appnMIB 0 }

-- *********************************************************************
-- Textual Conventions
-- *********************************************************************




Expires November 14, 1998                                       [Page 7]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


AppnLastChangeType ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
          "A value reporting the type of the last change made to
          a specified table.  Defined values are:

             addition(1)     - a new row was added to the table
             deletion(2)     - an existing row was removed from
                               the table
             modification(3) - the value of one or more objects
                               in an existing row of the table
                               changed.  Changes to objects with
                               the syntax counter32 or counter64
                               are not considered modifications.
                               Changes to other objects may also
                               be excluded in the definition of
                               an object having this syntax."

      SYNTAX INTEGER { addition(1),
                       deletion(2),
                       modification(3)
                     }
-- *********************************************************************
-- Notifications
-- *********************************************************************

appnIsrAccountingDataTrap NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      OBJECTS  {
                appnIsInP2SFmdPius,
                appnIsInS2PFmdPius,
                appnIsInP2SNonFmdPius,
                appnIsInS2PNonFmdPius,
                appnIsInP2SFmdBytes,
                appnIsInS2PFmdBytes,
                appnIsInP2SNonFmdBytes,
                appnIsInS2PNonFmdBytes,
                appnIsInSessUpTime
               }
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "When it has been enabled, this notification is generated by an
          APPN node whenever an ISR session passing through the node is
          taken down, regardless of whether the session went down
          normally or abnormally.  Its purpose is to allow a management
          application (primarily an accounting application) that is
          monitoring the ISR counts to receive the final values of these



Expires November 14, 1998                                       [Page 8]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


          counts, so that the application can properly account for the
          amounts the counts were incremented since the last time the
          application polled them.  The appnIsInSessUpTime object
          provides the total amount of time that the session was active.

          This notification is not a substitute for polling the ISR
          counts.  In particular, the count values reported in this
          notification cannot be assumed to be the complete totals for
          the life of the session, since they may have wrapped while the
          session was up.

          The session to which the objects in this notification apply is
          identified by the fully qualified CP name and PCID that make up
          the table index.  An instance of this notification will contain
          exactly one instance of each of its objects, and these objects
          will all belong to the same conceptual row of the
          appnIsInTable.

          Generation of this notification is controlled by the same
          object in the APPN MIB, appnIsInGlobeCtrAdminStatus, that
          controls whether the count objects themselves are being
          incremented."

      ::= { appnTrapMIB 1 }

appnLocalTgTopoChangeTrap NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      OBJECTS  {
                appnLocalTgTableChanges,
                appnLocalTgTableLastChangeType,
                appnLocalTgDestVirtual,
                appnLocalTgDlcData,
                appnLocalTgPortName,
                appnLocalTgQuiescing,
                appnLocalTgOperational,
                appnLocalTgCpCpSession,
                appnLocalTgEffCap,
                appnLocalTgConnCost,
                appnLocalTgByteCost,
                appnLocalTgSecurity,
                appnLocalTgDelay,
                appnLocalTgUsr1,
                appnLocalTgUsr2,
                appnLocalTgUsr3,
                appnLocalTgHprSup,
                appnLocalTgIntersubnet,
                appnLocalTgMltgLinkType,



Expires November 14, 1998                                       [Page 9]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


                appnLocalTgBranchLinkType
               }
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "When it has been enabled, this notification makes it possible
          for an APPN topology application to get asynchronous
          notifications of local topology changes, and thus to reduce the
          frequency with which it polls for these changes.  The
          notification is more than a simple 'poll me now' indication.
          It carries both a count of local TG topology changes, and the
          updated objects themselves.  The count of changes allows an
          application to detect lost notifications, either when polling
          or upon receiving a subsequent notification, at which point it
          knows it must retrieve the entire appnLocalTgTable again.

          An instance of this notification reports a change (addition,
          deletion, or modification) to a single row in the
          appnLocalTgTable.  It contains the two global objects
          appnLocalTgTableChanges and appnLocalTgTableLastChangeType,
          plus one or more objects from the affected row, as follows:

              -  For an addition to the table, all the objects in the
                 new row;
              -  For a deletion, the appnLocalTgDestVirtual object;
              -  For a modification, all the objects whose values
                 changed.

          The choice of appnLocalTgDestVirtual as the object to include
          in the deletion case was totally arbitrary.  All the receiving
          application needs is some object from the deleted row, so it
          can determine the index of the row.

          Generation of this notification is controlled by the
          appnTrapControl object."

      ::= { appnTrapMIB 2 }

appnPortChangeTrap NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      OBJECTS  {
                appnPortTableChanges,
                appnPortTableLastChangeType,
                appnPortOperState,
                appnPortDlcType,
                appnPortPortType,
                appnPortSIMRIM,
                appnPortLsRole,



Expires November 14, 1998                                      [Page 10]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


                appnPortNegotLs,
                appnPortDynamicLinkSupport,
                appnPortMaxRcvBtuSize,
                appnPortMaxIframeWindow,
                appnPortSpecific,
                appnPortDlcLocalAddr,
                appnPortCounterDisconTime
               }
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "When it has been enabled, this notification makes it possible
          for an APPN topology application to get asynchronous
          notifications of port table changes, and thus to reduce the
          frequency with which it polls for these changes.  The
          notification is more than a simple 'poll me now' indication.
          It carries both a count of port table changes, and the updated
          objects themselves.  The count of changes allows an application
          to detect lost notifications, either when polling or upon
          receiving a subsequent notification, at which point it knows it
          must retrieve the entire appnPortTable again.

          An instance of this notification reports a change (addition,
          deletion, or modification) to a single row in the
          appnPortTable.  It contains the two global objects
          appnPortTableChanges and appnPortTableLastChangeType, plus one
          or more objects from the affected row, as follows:

              -  For an addition to the table, all the objects listed
                 here in the new row;
              -  For a deletion, only the appnPortDlcType object;
              -  For a modification, all the objects listed here
                 whose values changed.

          Note that the counter objects in the appnPortTable are not
          included here, since notifications should not be issued as they
          are incremented.

          The choice of appnPortDlcType as the object to include in the
          deletion case was totally arbitrary.  All the receiving
          application needs is some object from the deleted row, so it
          can determine the index of the row.

          Generation of this notification is controlled by the
          appnTrapControl object."

      ::= { appnTrapMIB 3 }



Expires November 14, 1998                                      [Page 11]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


appnLsChangeTrap NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      OBJECTS  {
                appnLsTableChanges,
                appnLsTableLastChangeType,
                appnLsOperState,
                appnLsPortName,
                appnLsDlcType,
                appnLsDynamic,
                appnLsAdjCpName,
                appnLsAdjNodeType,
                appnLsTgNum,
                appnLsLimResource,
                appnLsActOnDemand,
                appnLsMigration,
                appnLsPartnerNodeId,
                appnLsCpCpSessionSupport,
                appnLsMaxSendBtuSize,
                appnLsSpecific,
                appnLsHprSup,
                appnLsErrRecoSup,
                appnLsForAnrLabel,
                appnLsRevAnrLabel,
                appnLsCpCpNceId,
                appnLsRouteNceId,
                appnLsBfNceId,
                appnLsLocalAddr,
                appnLsRemoteAddr,
                appnLsRemoteLsName,
                appnLsCounterDisconTime
               }
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "When it has been enabled, this notification makes it possible
          for an APPN topology application to get asynchronous
          notifications of link station table changes, and thus to reduce
          the frequency with which it polls for these changes.  The
          notification is more than a simple 'poll me now' indication.
          It carries both a count of link station table changes, and the
          updated objects themselves.  The count of changes allows an
          application to detect lost notifications, either when polling
          or upon receiving a subsequent notification, at which point it
          knows it must retrieve the entire appnLsTable again.

          An instance of this notification reports a change (addition,
          deletion, or modification) to a single row in the appnLsTable.
          It contains the two global objects appnLsTableChanges and



Expires November 14, 1998                                      [Page 12]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


          appnLsTableLastChangeType, plus one or more objects from the
          affected row, as follows:

              -  For an addition to the table, all the objects
                 listed here in the new row;
              -  For a deletion, only the appnLsPortName object;
              -  For a modification, all the objects listed here
                 whose values changed.

          Note that the counter and gauge objects in the appnLsTable are
          not included here, since notifications should not be issued as
          their values change.

          The choice of appnLsPortName as the object to include in the
          deletion case was totally arbitrary.  All the receiving
          application needs is some object from the deleted row, so it
          can determine the index of the row.

          Generation of this notification is controlled by the
          appnTrapControl object."

      ::= { appnTrapMIB 4 }

dlurDlusChangeTrap NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      OBJECTS  {
                dlurDlusTableChanges,
                dlurDlusTableLastChangeType,
                dlurDlusSessnStatus
               }
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "When it has been enabled, this notification makes it possible
          for an APPN topology application to get asynchronous
          notifications of DLUR-DLUS table changes, and thus to reduce
          the frequency with which it polls for these changes.  The
          notification is more than a simple 'poll me now' indication.
          It carries both a count of DLUR-DLUS table changes, and the
          updated objects themselves.  The count of changes allows an
          application to detect lost notifications, either when polling
          or upon receiving a subsequent notification, at which point it
          knows it must retrieve the entire dlurDlusTable again.

          An instance of this notification reports a change (addition,
          deletion, or modification) to a single row in the
          dlurDlusTable.  It contains the two global objects
          dlurDlusTableChanges and dlurDlusTableLastChangeType, plus



Expires November 14, 1998                                      [Page 13]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


          the table's one accessible object:  dlurDlusSessnStatus.

          Generation of this notification is controlled by the
          appnTrapControl object."

      ::= { appnTrapMIB 5 }

-- *********************************************************************
-- Supporting Objects
-- *********************************************************************

appnTrapObjects              OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { appnObjects 7 }

appnTrapControl OBJECT-TYPE


      SYNTAX BITS {
                   appnLocalTgTopoChangeTrap(0),
                   appnPortChangeTrap(1),
                   appnLsChangeTrap(2),
                   dlurDlusChangeTrap(3)
                   -- add other notification types here
                  }
      MAX-ACCESS read-write
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "An object to turn APPN notification generation on and off.
          Setting a notification type's bit to 1 enables generation of
          notifications of that type, subject to further filtering
          resulting from entries in the snmpNotificationMIB.  Setting
          this bit to 0 disables generation of notifications of that
          type.

          Note that generation of the appnIsrAccountingDataTrap is
          controlled by the appnIsInGlobeCtrAdminStatus object in
          the APPN MIB:  if counts of intermediate session traffic
          are being kept at all, then the notification is also enabled."

      ::= { appnTrapObjects 1 }

appnLocalTgTableChanges OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "A count of the number of times the appnLocalTgTable has



Expires November 14, 1998                                      [Page 14]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


          changed since the APPN node was last reinitialized.
          Addition, deletion, or modification of a row in the table
          counts as a single change."

      ::= { appnTrapObjects 2 }

appnLocalTgTableLastChangeType OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX AppnLastChangeType
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "An object reporting the type of the last change made
          to the appnLocalTgTable."

      ::= { appnTrapObjects 3 }

appnPortTableChanges OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "A count of the number of times the appnPortTable has
          changed since the APPN node was last reinitialized.
          Addition, deletion, or modification of a row in the table
          counts as a single change."

      ::= { appnTrapObjects 4 }

appnPortTableLastChangeType OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX AppnLastChangeType
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "An object reporting the type of the last change made
          to the appnPortTable."

      ::= { appnTrapObjects 5 }

appnLsTableChanges OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "A count of the number of times the appnLsTable has
          changed since the APPN node was last reinitialized.
          Addition, deletion, or modification of a row in the table



Expires November 14, 1998                                      [Page 15]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


          counts as a single change."

      ::= { appnTrapObjects 6 }

appnLsTableLastChangeType OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX AppnLastChangeType
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "An object reporting the type of the last change made
          to the appnLsTable."

      ::= { appnTrapObjects 7 }

dlurDlusTableChanges OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "A count of the number of times the dlurDlusTable has
          changed since the APPN node was last reinitialized.
          Addition, deletion, or modification of a row in the table
          counts as a single change."

      ::= { appnTrapObjects 8 }

dlurDlusTableLastChangeType OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX AppnLastChangeType
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION


          "An object reporting the type of the last change made
          to the dlurDlusTable."

      ::= { appnTrapObjects 9 }

-- *********************************************************************
-- Conformance information
-- *********************************************************************

-- Tie into the conformance structure in the APPN MIB:
-- appnConformance       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {appnMIB 3 }
--
-- appnCompliances       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {appnConformance 1 }



Expires November 14, 1998                                      [Page 16]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


-- appnGroups            OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {appnConformance 2 }

-- Compliance statement
appnTrapMibCompliance  MODULE-COMPLIANCE
       STATUS  current
       DESCRIPTION
           "The compliance statement for the SNMP entities that
           implement the APPN-TRAP-MIB."

       MODULE  -- this module

--     Conditionally mandatory groups
           GROUP appnTrapMibIsrNotifGroup
           DESCRIPTION
               "This group is mandatory for APPN nodes supporting
               reporting of final ISR counter values via notifications."

           GROUP appnTrapMibTopoConfGroup
           DESCRIPTION
               "This group is mandatory for APPN nodes supporting
               polling reduction for local topology."

           GROUP appnTrapMibTopoNotifGroup
           DESCRIPTION
               "This group is mandatory for APPN nodes supporting
               polling reduction for local topology."

           GROUP appnTrapMibDlurConfGroup
           DESCRIPTION
               "This group is mandatory for APPN nodes supporting
               polling reduction for the dlurDlusTable."

           GROUP appnTrapMibDlurNotifGroup
           DESCRIPTION
               "This group is mandatory for APPN nodes supporting
               polling reduction for the dlurDlusTable."

           OBJECT appnTrapControl
               MIN-ACCESS  read-only
               DESCRIPTION
                   "An agent is not required to support a set to
                   this object."

       ::= {appnCompliances 2 }





Expires November 14, 1998                                      [Page 17]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


-- Units of conformance
appnTrapMibIsrNotifGroup    NOTIFICATION-GROUP
        NOTIFICATIONS {
                       appnIsrAccountingDataTrap
                      }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A notification for reporting the final values of the
            APPN MIB's ISR counters."

        ::= { appnGroups 21 }

appnTrapMibTopoConfGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS  {
                  appnTrapControl,
                  appnLocalTgTableChanges,
                  appnLocalTgTableLastChangeType,
                  appnPortTableChanges,
                  appnPortTableLastChangeType,
                  appnLsTableChanges,
                  appnLsTableLastChangeType
                 }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects for reducing the polling
            associated with the local topology tables in the
            APPN MIB.  Nodes that implement this group SHALL
            also implement the appnTrapMibTopoNotifGroup."

        ::= { appnGroups 22 }

appnTrapMibTopoNotifGroup    NOTIFICATION-GROUP
        NOTIFICATIONS {
                       appnLocalTgTopoChangeTrap,
                       appnPortChangeTrap,
                       appnLsChangeTrap
                      }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of notifications for reducing the polling
            associated with the local topology tables in the
            APPN MIB.  Nodes that implement this group SHALL
            also implement the appnTrapMibTopoConfGroup."

        ::= { appnGroups 23 }




Expires November 14, 1998                                      [Page 18]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


appnTrapMibDlurConfGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS  {
                  appnTrapControl,
                  dlurDlusTableChanges,
                  dlurDlusTableLastChangeType
                 }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects for reducing the polling
            associated with the dlurDlusTable in the DLUR
            MIB.  Nodes that implement this group SHALL also
            implement the appnTrapMibDlurNotifGroup."

        ::= { appnGroups 24 }

appnTrapMibDlurNotifGroup    NOTIFICATION-GROUP
        NOTIFICATIONS {
                       dlurDlusChangeTrap
                      }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
            "A notification for reducing the polling associated
            with the dlurDlusTable in the DLUR MIB.  Nodes that
            implement this group SHALL also implement the
            appnTrapMibDlurConfGroup."

        ::= { appnGroups 25 }

END




















Expires November 14, 1998                                      [Page 19]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


5.  Security Considerations

Certain management information defined in this MIB may be considered
sensitive in some network environments.  Therefore, authentication of
received SNMP requests and controlled access to management information
SHOULD be employed in such environments.  An authentication protocol is
defined in [10].  A protocol for access control is defined in [11].

None of the read-only objects in the APPN TRAP MIB reports a password,
user data, or anything else that is particularly sensitive.  Some
enterprises view their network configuration itself, as well as
information about network usage and performance, as corporate assets;
such enterprises may wish to restrict SNMP access to most of the objects
in the MIB.

There is one read-write object in the APPN TRAP MIB, appnTrapControl.
This object controls the generation of the notifications defined in the
APPN TRAP MIB.

6.  Intellectual Property

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed to pertain
to the implementation or use of the technology described in this
document or the extent to which any license under such rights might or
might not be available; neither does it represent that it has made any
effort to identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's
procedures with respect to rights in standards-track and standards-
related documentation can be found in BCP-11 [12].  Copies of claims of
rights made available for publication and any assurances of licenses to
be made available, or the result of an attempt made to obtain a general
license or permission for the use of such proprietary rights by
implementers or users of this specification can be obtained from the
IETF Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights
which may cover technology that may be required to practice this
standard.  Please address the information to the IETF Executive
Director.


7.  Acknowledgments

This MIB module is the product of the IETF SNA NAU MIB WG and the AIW
APPN/HPR MIBs SIG.



Expires November 14, 1998                                      [Page 20]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


8.  References


[1]  Case, J., M. Fedor, M. Schoffstall, J. Davin, "Simple Network
     Management Protocol", RFC 1157, SNMP Research, Performance Systems
     International, MIT Laboratory for Computer Science, May 1990.

[2]  McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II", STD 17,
     RFC 1213, Hughes LAN Systems, Performance Systems International,
     March 1991.

[3]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser S., "Structure
     of Management Information for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902, January 1996.

[4]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Textual
     Conventions for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1903, January 1996.

[5]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S.,
     "Conformance Statements for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1904, January 1996.

[6]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Protocol
     Operations for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

[7]  Harrington D., Presuhn, R., Wijnen, B., "An Architecture for
     Describing SNMP Management Frameworks", RFC 2271, Cabletron
     Systems, BMC Software, Inc., IBM T.J. Watson Research, January
     1998.

[8]  Harrington D., Presuhn, R., Wijnen, B., "Message Processing and
     Dispatching for the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)", RFC
     2272, Cabletron Systems, BMC Software, Inc., IBM T.J. Watson
     Research, January 1998.

[9]  Levi D., Meyer P., Stewart, B., "SNMPv3 Applications", RFC 2273,
     SNMP Research, Inc., Secure Computing Corporation, Cisco Systems,
     January 1998.

[10] Blumenthal, U., Wijnen, B., "User-based Security Model (USM) for
     version 3 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv3)", RFC
     2274, IBM T. J. Watson Research, January 1998




Expires November 14, 1998                                      [Page 21]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


[11] Wijnen, B., Presuhn, R., McCloghrie, K., "View-based Access Control
     Model (VACM) for the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)",
     RFC 2275, IBM T.J. Watson Research, BMC Software, Inc., Cisco
     Systems, Inc., January 1998.

[12] Hovey, R., and S. Bradner, "The Organizations Involved in the IETF
     Standards Process", BCP 11, RFC 2028, October 1996.

[13] Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
     Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

[14] Clouston, B., and B. Moore, "Definition of Managed Objects for APPN
     using SMIv2", RFC 2155, June 1997.

[15] Clouston, B., and B. Moore, "Definitions of Managed Objects for
     DLUR", RFC 2232, November 1997.


9.  Authors' Addresses

Bob Clouston
Cisco Systems
7025 Kit Creek Road
P.O. Box 14987
Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA

Tel:    1 919 472 2333
E-mail: clouston@cisco.com


Robert Moore
Dept. BRQA/Bldg. 501/G114
IBM Corporation
P.O.Box 12195
3039 Cornwallis
Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA

Phone: +1-919-254-4436
E-mail: remoore@us.ibm.com


10.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1998).  All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to



Expires November 14, 1998                                      [Page 22]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS
IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK
FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT
INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.




























Expires November 14, 1998                                      [Page 23]

Internet Draft            SNANAU APPN TRAP MIB                  May 1998


Table of Contents


   1.     Introduction  ...........................................  2
   2.     The SNMP Network Management Framework  ..................  2
   3.     Overview  ...............................................  3
   3.1      APPN TRAP MIB structure  ..............................  4
   4.     Definitions  ............................................  6
   5.     Security Considerations  ................................  20
   5.     Intellectual Property  ..................................  20
   7.     Acknowledgments  ........................................  20
   8.     References  .............................................  21
   9.     Authors' Addresses  .....................................  22
   10.    Full Copyright Statement  ...............................  22



































Expires November 14, 1998                                      [Page 24]

