AAA Working Group                                             Jari Arkko
INTERNET-DRAFT                                                  Ericsson
Category: Informational
<draft-arkko-acctrqlis-00.txt>

                        Accounting Requirements


1.  Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.  Internet-
Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months and may be
updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any time.  It is
inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material or to cite
them other than as "work in progress."

     The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
     http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

     The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
     http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

The distribution of this memo is unlimited.  It is filed as <draft-
arkko-acctrqlis-00.txt>, and expires April 22, 2000. Please send com-
ments to the author.

2.  Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1999).  All Rights Reserved.

3.  Abstract

This document is a common list of accounting requirements collected from
a number of documents from the NASREQ, ROAMOPS, MOBILEIP, and AAA work-
ing groups. The intention is to present a detailed-level list of the
summarized requirements in [1] as well as including some important
requirements from [2,3, and 4].

4.  Introduction

This document is a common list of accounting requirements collected from
a number of documents from the NASREQ, ROAMOPS, MOBILEIP, and AAA work-
ing groups. The intention is to present a detailed-level list of the
summarized requirements in [1] as well as including some important
requirements from [2,3, and 4].




Arkko                        Informational                      [Page 1]

INTERNET-DRAFT          Accounting Requirements         October 29, 1999


4.1.  Requirements language

In this document, the key words "MAY", "MUST,  "MUST  NOT",  "optional",
"recommended",  "SHOULD",  and  "SHOULD  NOT",  are to be interpreted as
described in [6].

Please note that the requirements specified in this document are to be
used in evaluating AAA protocol submissions.  As such, the requirements
language refers to capabilities of these protocols; the protocol docu-
ments will specify whether these features are required, recommended, or
optional.  For example, requiring that a protocol support confidential-
ity is NOT the same thing as requiring that all protocol traffic be
encrypted.

A protocol submission is not compliant if it fails to satisfy one or
more of the MUST or MUST NOT requirements for the capabilities that it
implements.  A protocol submission that satisfies all the MUST, MUST
NOT, SHOULD and SHOULD NOT requirements for its capabilities is said to
be "unconditionally compliant"; one that satisfies all the MUST and MUST
NOT requirements but not all the SHOULD or SHOULD NOT requirements for
its protocols is said to be "conditionally compliant."

5.  Requirements

Requirements are listed in five categories:
  - General
  - Accounted Events
  - Data Formats
  - Data Contents
  - Security





















Arkko                        Informational                      [Page 2]

INTERNET-DRAFT          Accounting Requirements         October 29, 1999


5.1.  General Requirements

    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | REQUIREMENT               |  LEVEL  |  REFERENCE        |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Real-time accounting      |  MUST   | [8, 3.1]          |
    |                           |         | [4, 5.5]          |
    |                           |         | [5, 8.4.1.2]      |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Batch accounting          |  MUST   | [5, 8.4.1.3]      |
    |                           |         | [4, 5.2]          |
    |                           |         | [1, 4.3]          |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | On-demand re-sync         |  MUST   | [5, 8.4.1.6]      |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Accounting data available |  SHOULD | [9, 3.3]          |
    | before service given      |         |                   |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Negotiation of transfer   |  SHOULD | [2, 5]            |
    | method and format,        |         |                   |
    | capabilities              |         |                   |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | On-line usage summaries   |  SHOULD | [9, 3.3]          |
    | to involved parties       |         |                   |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Reliable delivery even    |  MUST   | [4, 6.1]          |
    | with small packet loss    |         |                   |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Reliable delivery even    |  MUST   | [4, 6.1]          |
    | with small packet loss    |         |                   |
    |                           |         |                   |



Arkko                        Informational                      [Page 3]

INTERNET-DRAFT          Accounting Requirements         October 29, 1999


    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Reliable delivery even    |  MUST   | [4, 6.1]          |
    | with large packet loss    |         |                   |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Reliable delivery even    |  MUST   | [4, 6.1]          |
    | with server failures      |         |                   |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Reliable delivery even    |  MUST   | [4, 6.1]          |
    | with device failures      |         |                   |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Reliable delivery even    |  MUST   | [4, 6.1]          |
    | with network problems     |         |                   |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+






























Arkko                        Informational                      [Page 4]

INTERNET-DRAFT          Accounting Requirements         October 29, 1999


5.2.  Accounted Event Requirements

    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | REQUIREMENT               |  LEVEL  |  REFERENCE        |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Start of a session        |  MUST   | [5, 8.4.1.5]      |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | End of a session          |  MUST   | [5, 8.4.1.5]      |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Expiration of repeating   |  MUST   | [5, 8.4.1.5]      |
    | time interval             |         |                   |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Dynamic re-authorization  |  MUST   | [5, 8.4.1.5]      |
    |                           |         | [9, 3.3]          |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Dynamic re-authentication |  MUST   | [5, 8.4.1.5]      |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+






















Arkko                        Informational                      [Page 5]

INTERNET-DRAFT          Accounting Requirements         October 29, 1999


5.3.  Data Format Requirements

    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | REQUIREMENT               |  LEVEL  |  REFERENCE        |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Simple standard format    |  MUST   | [1, 4.3]          |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Compact record format     |  MUST   | [7, 4.3]          |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Allow large records       |  MUST   | -                 |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Accounting record         |  MUST   | [5, 8.1.3.3]      |
    | Extensibility             |         |                   |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Standard data types       |  MUST   | [2, 4.2.1]        |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Tagged and typed data     |  MUST   | [2, 4.2]          |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Versioned services        |  SHOULD | [2, 4.4.2]        |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Service namespace         |  MUST   | [2, 4.4.4]        |
    | management                |         |                   |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Multiple record encoding  |  MAY    | [2, 5]            |
    | formats                   |         |                   |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+





Arkko                        Informational                      [Page 6]

INTERNET-DRAFT          Accounting Requirements         October 29, 1999


5.4.  Data Contents Requirements

    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | REQUIREMENT               |  LEVEL  |  REFERENCE        |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Time stamps               |  MUST   | [5, 8.4.1.4]      |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | All authentication        |  MUST   | [5, 8.4.2]        |
    | parameters                |         |                   |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | All authorization profile |  MUST   | [5, 8.4.2]        |
    | parameters                |         |                   |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Duration                  |  MUST   | [5, 8.4.2]        |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Termination cause         |  MUST   | [5, 8.4.2]        |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Diagnostics               |  MUST   | [5, 8.4.2]        |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Transaction identifier    |  MUST   | [2, 4.3]          |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Identification of the     |  MUST   | [2, 4.4.4]        |
    | service                   |         |                   |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Compound services         |  MUST   | [2, 4.4.3]        |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Parameters specific to    |  MUST   | [2, 4.4.1]        |



Arkko                        Informational                      [Page 7]

INTERNET-DRAFT          Accounting Requirements         October 29, 1999


    | the particular service    |         |                   |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
















































Arkko                        Informational                      [Page 8]

INTERNET-DRAFT          Accounting Requirements         October 29, 1999


5.5.  Security Requirements

    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | REQUIREMENT               |  LEVEL  |  REFERENCE        |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Integrity protection      |  MUST   | [8, 3.1]          |
    |                           |         | [4, 5.5]          |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Confidentiality protection|  MUST   | [4, 5.5]          |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Replay protection         |  MUST   | [4, 5.5]          |
    |                           |         | [8, 3.1]          |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Authentication            |  MUST   | [8, 3.1]          |
    |                           |         | [4, 5.5]          |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | End-to-end integrity      |  MUST   | [5, 8.4.3.1]      |
    | protection                |         | [1, 4.3]          |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | End-to-end confidentiality|  SHOULD | [5, 8.4.3.1]      |
    | protection                |         | [1, 4.3]          |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Non-repudiation           |  SHOULD | [5, 8.4.3.2]      |
    |                           |         | [8, 3.1]          |
    |                           |         | [1, 4.3]          |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Archival accounting       |  MUST   | [4, 5.1]          |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Matching accounting record|  MUST   | [8, 3.1]          |



Arkko                        Informational                      [Page 9]

INTERNET-DRAFT          Accounting Requirements         October 29, 1999


    | with authorization event  |         |                   |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           |         |                   |
    | Data-based access control | MUST    | [4, 7.1.3.3]      |
    |                           |         |                   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+












































Arkko                        Informational                     [Page 10]

INTERNET-DRAFT          Accounting Requirements         October 29, 1999


6.  References


[1]  Beadles, M. et al., "Network Access AAA Evaluation Criteria",
     Internet draft (work in progress), draft-ietf-aaa-na-reqts-00.txt,
     October 1999.

[2]  Blount, A., "Accounting Protocol and Record Format Features",
     Internet draft (work in progress), draft-blount-acct-service-
     00.txt, September, 1999.

[3]  Brownlee, N., "Accounting Attributes and Record Formats", Internet
     draft (work in progress), draft-brownlee-accounting-attributes-
     00.txt, May, 1999.

[4]  Aboba, B. and Arkko, J., "Introduction to Accounting Management",
     Internet draft (work in progress), draft-aboba-acct-02.txt, October
     1999.

[5]  Beadles, M., "Criteria for Evaluating Network Access Server Proto-
     cols", Internet draft (work in progress), draft-ietf-nasreq-
     criteria-03.txt, October 1999.

[6]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
     Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

[7]  Aboba, B., and G. Zorn, "Criteria for Evaluating Roaming Proto-
     cols",  RFC 2477, January 1999.

[8]  Hiller, T., et al., "Cdma2000 Wireless Data Requirements for AAA",
     Internet draft (work in progress), draft-hiller-cdma2000-AAA-
     00.txt, October 1999.

[9]  Glass, S., Jacobs, S., Perkins, C., "Mobile IP Authentication,
     Authorization, and Accounting Requirements", Internet draft (work
     in progress), draft-ietf-mobileip-aaa-reqs-01.txt, October 1999.

7.  Security Considerations

This document, being a requirements document, does not have any security
concerns. It does set some security requirements, however.

8.  IANA Considerations

This draft does not create any new number spaces for IANA administra-
tion.





Arkko                        Informational                     [Page 11]

INTERNET-DRAFT          Accounting Requirements         October 29, 1999


9.  Acknowledgements

Credit from discovering the requirements is due to the referenced docu-
ments and their authors, as well as the whole IETF AAA working group.

10.  Author's Address


Jari Arkko
Oy LM Ericsson Ab
02420 Jorvas
Finland

Phone: +358 40 5079256
EMail: jari.arkko@ericsson.com

11.  Intellectual Property Statement

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any intel-
lectual property or other rights that might be claimed to  pertain to
the implementation or use of the technology described in this document
or the extent to which any license under such rights might or might not
be available; neither does it represent that it has made any effort to
identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's procedures with
respect to rights in standards-track and standards-related documentation
can be found in BCP-11.  Copies of claims of rights made available for
publication and any assurances of licenses to be made available, or the
result of an attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for
the use of such proprietary rights by implementors or users of this
specification can be obtained from the IETF Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights
which may cover technology that may be required to practice this stan-
dard.  Please address the information to the IETF Executive Director.

12.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1999).  All Rights Reserved.
This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to oth-
ers, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implmentation may be prepared, copied, published and dis-
tributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind, provided
that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included on all
such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself may not
be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice or
references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in



Arkko                        Informational                     [Page 12]

INTERNET-DRAFT          Accounting Requirements         October 29, 1999


which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet Stan-
dards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than = English.  The limited permissions granted above
are perpetual and will not be revoked by the Internet Society or its
successors or assigns.  This document and the information contained
herein is provided on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE
INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRAN-
TIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."

13.  Expiration Date

This memo is filed as <draft-arkko-acctrqlis-00.txt>,  and  expires
April 22, 2000.




































Arkko                        Informational                     [Page 13]

