IRCAT Working Group                                             Y. Yu
Internet Draft                                                 Huawei
Intended status: Standard Track                                T.Tsou
Expires: December 2011                                         Huawei
                                                                 R.Li
                                                               Huawei
                                                         June 10, 2011

        Inter-router Cooperative and Teaming for massive scalability
                  draft-yu-ircat-problem-statement-00.txt


Status of this Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html

   This Internet-Draft will expire on December 10, 2011.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2011 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors. All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document. Please review these documents carefully,
   as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect to this
   document. Code Components extracted from this document must include
   Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of the Trust
   Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as described in
   the Simplified BSD License.





Yu&Tsou&Li            Expires December 10, 2011               [Page 1]

Internet-Draft         IRCAT Problem Statement               June 2011


Abstract

With new applications emerging such as provider-provisioned cloud
service or VPN oriented cloud service, the network equipment of provider
faces the new requirements regarding massive scalability.

This document describes the challenges when VPN oriented cloud server
emerge. Cooperative router group solution is recommended to meet new
massive scaling requirement. Cooperative router group addresses new
mechanisms which to be developed and further studied.

Table of Contents

   1. Introduction ................................................. 2
      1.1. Challenges of Provider Data Center Service Solution ...... 3
      1.2. Warehouse data Center ................................... 3
      1.3. Provider Cloud Site PE .................................. 3
      1.4. Provider Cloud Site CE .................................. 3
      1.5. Scaled Network Virtualization ........................... 4
   2. Terminology ................................................. 4
   3. Inter Router cooperative Group ............................... 4
      3.1. Control Plane and Forwarding Plane Separation ........... 5
         3.1.1. Control Plane and Forwarding Plane Separation is
         necessary ................................................ 5
         3.1.2. Unified Router Group Control Plane is necessary ..... 5
      3.2. Router Discovery Mechanism .............................. 5
      3.3. Topology of Router Group ................................ 5
         3.3.1. An Example of interior router inter-connection network6
      3.4. Load Migration ......................................... 6
         3.4.1. Router Capability Exchange Mechanism is needed ...... 6
         3.4.2. Local resource load monitoring ..................... 7
         3.4.3. Load Migration ..................................... 7
         3.4.4. Calculate Target Router of Load Migration........... 7
      3.5. Always In Service ....................................... 7
   4. Conclusions and Recommendations .............................. 8
   5. Security Considerations ...................................... 8
   6. IANA Considerations ......................................... 8
   7. Acknowledgments ............................................. 8
   8. Reference: .................................................. 8

1. Introduction

Enterprise customers now do not need to invest local IT resource instead
of leasing cheaper on-demand resources from provider. Provider also gets
into new business by providing data center service. AT&T published its
CloudNet proposal for its provider data center service solution. This
proposal introduces VPN into data center cloud service. Enterprise


Yu&Tsou&Li            Expires December 10, 2011               [Page 2]

Internet-Draft         IRCAT Problem Statement               June 2011


customers utilize VPN to access the provider's data center. VPN oriented
provider data center service not only provides secure access but by
using VPN but also separates customer resources in provider data center
service by VPN.

 Challenges of Provider Data Center Service Solution

VPN oriented provider cloud service provides can provide flexible
resource allocation schemes responding to dynamic changes of cloud and
network. VPN also provides transparent connects between enterprise
customers and isolations within clouds. However, it also brings higher
requirements and let current network equipments face hard time. The
Challenges can be summarized as extremely high scalability and high
scaled virtualization.

 Warehouse data Center

Today the warehouse data centers can accommodate over 120,000 physical
servers. Each server may install multi core CPU and each core is hyper
threaded. With a decent virtualization, each server can support up to 20
VMs. So a warehouse data center can maximally accommodate up to
2,400,000 VMs.

This means control plane scalability to hold 2.4M VMs. That implies that
the network is going to be added 2.4M MAC addresses plus 2.4M IPv4 and
IPv6 addresses. If data center is layer3, 2.4M IP host routes are also
added.

 Provider Cloud Site PE

Provider's cloud service is provided by a VPN for each customer. This
means almost all VPNs of cloud service customer finally aggregate to
provide cloud side PE. This creates extremely high scale requirement for
PE. For example, cloud service is provided for 500K enterprise customers,
500K VPN must be configured and there are 10K routes in each VPN, so PE
at least reach 500K vrfs and 500 million vrf routes. This is far beyond
all PE routers' capability in market.

 Provider Cloud Site CE

Provider cloud service requires logical CEs has a virtual instances
corresponding to a customer VPN. 500K VPN customer means 500K virtual
routing instances in logical CE. Even though all major vendor routers
have features of logical router and virtual router, but their
scalability can not meet the requirement of provider data center.




Yu&Tsou&Li            Expires December 10, 2011               [Page 3]

Internet-Draft         IRCAT Problem Statement               June 2011


 Scaled Network Virtualization

Servers are virtualized into many slices of VMs in provider cloud data
center. VMs belong to different customers but share the same physic
network. Network virtualization handles how to forward a packet to its
right place in a provider data center--- a highly scaled inter-leaving
inter-mixing fate-sharing network. Network virtualization becomes very
challenging in provider cloud data center.



2. Terminology

VPN  Virtual Private Network

VRF  Virtual Routing and Forwarding

VPC   Virtual Private Cloud

CloudNet AT & T proposed a VPN oriented cloud service

DE Provider Data Center Edge

VM   Virtual Machine



3. Inter Router cooperative Group

To meet the massive scalability from the newer emerging application,
single chassis router or single entity router faces tough time. Even
though right now CPU and Memory speed grow very fast, build a giant
router is still expensive. Single giant router does not have the
flexibility of seamlessly scales from low to high. So unite a group of
router into a single router become necessary. All the routers in router
group have same router ID and perform as single router. The router group
is viewed as single network node in the network. Routers in router group
can be heterogeneous or homogeneous; they are not required to be the
same type of router.

Compare to single giant solution, router group method is practical and
much cheaper, easy to deploy. Router group can be seamlessly scale up
and down without disrupted the service. If load of router group is low
at first, fewer routers can be put into router group initially. Then
more routers can be added into group when load goes up.




Yu&Tsou&Li            Expires December 10, 2011               [Page 4]

Internet-Draft         IRCAT Problem Statement               June 2011


 Control Plane and Forwarding Plane Separation

3.1.1. Control Plane and Forwarding Plane Separation is necessary

As cooperative router group definition, Routers can be added or removed
freely corresponding to the load of router group changes. It is not
necessary that a router control plane only manages data plane in it
chassis under router group scenario. Router group has more flexibility
to utilize all router resources of whole router group.

3.1.2. Unified Router Group Control Plane is necessary

It becomes tough way to cooperate so many independent routers in router
group. To fully utilize and mange control plane, the introduction of a
virtualization to unified router control plane becomes necessary. Router
Group performs and can be viewed as a single network node to whole
network. United router group control plane has unified router ID and
unified addresses to the other network. Each router's control plane is a
slice of resource of this unified group control plane. Adding or
removing a router just adds or removes a slice of resource from global
resource pool.

 Router Discovery Mechanism

When a new router comes into or leaves away from router group, the other
routers in group must be aware of this change. Automatic router
discovery mechanism is needed

3.3. Topology of Router Group

Interior interconnection network among routers can be either layer 2 or
layer 3. The interior interconnection MAC addresses (for layer 2 network)
or IP addresses (for layer 3 network) are only privately used for
internal communication. Other network nodes outside the router group do
not see those addresses.

In the same time, router group maintains public router ID and a set of
public IP addresses. Router group public information is published to
other network nodes.

Interior router interconnection network takes following functions:

 1. Internal router communication.

Internal router communication means unicast/multicast communication
between (or among) group routers. This part is work pretty well with
current protocols.


Yu&Tsou&Li            Expires December 10, 2011               [Page 5]

Internet-Draft         IRCAT Problem Statement               June 2011


 2. External packets forwarding

Ingress local packets are all destined to public IP address. Additional
mechanism is needed under this scenario. Next section is an example of
this case.

3.3.1. An Example of interior router inter-connection network

          +----------+       +-----------+           +---------+
          |     A    |       |      B    |           |    C    |
          |   (BGP 1)| ----- |  (BGP 2)  | -------   |  (OSPF) |
          +----------+       +-----------+           +---------+
          |   LC     |       |   LC      |           |    LC   |
          +----------+       +-----------+           +---------+
           Figure 1 Interior router inter-connection example

There are 3 routers A, B, C in router group. Their interior IP addresses
are 10.1.1.1, 10.1.1.2, 10.1.1.3 respect. Router group has public
address is 1.1.1.1. 2 BGP instance are running on router A and B, OSPF
instance is running on router C. BGP on router A & B are load balanced,
it means half BGP peers are handled by A and second half peers are
handled by B. All BGP peers are peering with IP address (1.1.1.1).

When BGP packet is punt up via Line card, the destination IP address of
packet is 1.1.1.1. If this packet is from the peer who is handled by A,
this packet should be forwarded to A. If an OSPF packet punts up, it
should be forwarded to C.

New mechanisms are needed to be developed here to forward ingress egress
packets to right location.

 Load Migration

Router load migration is great advantage of cooperative route group.
Before a router runs out of resource, Part of router load can be
migrated to other routers who have enough resource to accommodate those
loads.

To achieve automatic dynamic load migration is cooperative router group,
a series of new mechanisms are needed to be developed

3.4.1. Router Capability Exchange Mechanism is needed

When a router joins the router group, it should advertise its capability.
Capability here router's used and available CPU and memory capacities
etc, router group must have a capability database of all routes.



Yu&Tsou&Li            Expires December 10, 2011               [Page 6]

Internet-Draft         IRCAT Problem Statement               June 2011


Router capability is always changed, so capability database is updated
from time to time.

Router capability database is used by migration target calculation.

3.4.2. Local resource load monitoring

Router should monitor its local resource status. Before resources are
run out of trigger the load migration procedure

3.4.3. Load Migration

Router local working load can be defined in load migration.

   -  Migrate able and non-migrate able

For those migrate able working load, we can also define as:

   -  Split able and non-split able

Split able working load can be partial migrated to target router and
vice visa.

Load migration can be trigged by automatic load monitoring or manually
by operator.

3.4.4. Calculate Target Router of Load Migration

If a router is required to migrate its partial or entire load, it makes
the decision about the best target routers and the amount of working
load to be migrated

Target router calculation can base on router capability database, local
load status and pre configured policy.

Migration target calculation is a complex process if the optimal results
are wanted, How to simply the calculation compromise with a little bit
sub-optimal result?



 Always In Service

Availability is the significant factor of cooperative router group.
Internal operations of router group, such as Load migration, data
synchronization, should not disrupt the service to outside other network
node.


Yu&Tsou&Li            Expires December 10, 2011               [Page 7]

Internet-Draft         IRCAT Problem Statement               June 2011




4. Conclusions and Recommendations

Because of massive scaling requirements of provider cloud service, we
have concluded and recommend that:

  - Cooperative router group solution addresses pretty new machismos
   which should be developed and needed further study.

  - Cooperative router group solution addresses pretty new machismos
   which should be developed and needed further study.

  - We recommend IETF to develop the new mechanisms addressed by
   cooperative router group.



5. Security Considerations

This document does not add additional Security Considerations.



6. IANA Considerations

This document does not add additional Security Considerations.



7. Acknowledgments

This document was prepared using 2-Word-v2.0.template.dot.



8. Reference:

[1]     [CloudNET] T. Wood,  The Case for Enterprise-ready Virtual
      Private Clouds









Yu&Tsou&Li            Expires December 10, 2011               [Page 8]

Internet-Draft         IRCAT Problem Statement               June 2011






Author's Addresses



Yang Yu

Huawei Technologies

2300 Central Expressway,

Santa Clara, CA 95050, USA

Email:yyu@huawei.com



Tina Tsou

Huawei Technologies

2300 Central Expressway,

Santa Clara, CA 95050, USA

Email:tena@huawei.com


Renwei Li

Huawei Technologies

2300 Central Expressway,

Santa Clara, CA 95050, USA
Email:renwei.li@huawei.com











Yu&Tsou&Li            Expires December 10, 2011               [Page 9]

