Network Working Group                                       Jacob Palme
Internet Draft                                 Stockholm University/KTH
draft-palme-int-print-00.txt
Category-to-be: Informational
Expires: January 1996                                         July 1996




Making Postscript and Acrobat Files International



Status of this Memo


This document is an Internet-Draft. Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups. Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time. It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
``1id-abstracts.txt'' listing contained in the Internet-Drafts Shadow
Directories on ftp.is.co.za (Africa), nic.nordu.net (Europe),
munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim), ds.internic.net (US East Coast), or
ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast).

This memo provides information for the Internet community. This memo
does not specify an Internet standard of any kind. Distribution of this
memo is unlimited.


Abstract

Certain text formats, for example Postscript (extension .ps) and Adobe
Acrobat (extension .pdf) specify exactly the page layout of the printed
document. The commonly used paper format is different in America and the
rest of the world. America uses the "Letter" format, while the rest of
the world uses the "A4" format This means that documents formatted on
one continent may not be printable on another continent. This memo gives
advice on how to produce documents which are equally well printable with
the Letter and the A4 formats. By using the advice in this document, you
can put up a document on the Internet, which recipients can print
without problem both in and outside America.








Palme               Do not implement based on this draft         [Page 1]
draft-palme-int-print-00.txt                                   June 1996


Introduction

Certain text formats, for example Postscript (extension .ps) and Adobe
Acrobat (extension .pdf) specify exactly the page layout of the printed
document. The commonly used paper format is different in America and the
rest of the world. America uses the "Letter" format, while the rest of
the world uses the "A4" format.

The American Letter format is 8.5 x 11 inches (215 x 278 mm) while the
ISO standardised A4 format is 210 x 297 mm (8.27 x 11.69 inches). The
Letter format is thus 5 mm (0.19 inches) wider, while the A4 format is
19 mm (0.75 inches) taller.

This means that documents formatted on one continent may not be
printable on another continent. It is oboviously desirable that
documents put up on the Internet are printable on all continents. This
paper gives advice on how to achieve this.


Temporary note

This version of this Internet draft is based on the author's experiments
using Microsoft Word and Adobe Acrobat on a Macintosh computer. I would
appreciate if people who use other platforms and software could test if
my advice will apply also to their software.

Some demo documents which can be used to test the conclusions in this
paper can be found at the following URLs:
For Macintosh:
http://www.dsv.su.se/~jpalme/ietf/draft-palme-int-print-demo.sea
For other platforms:
http://www.dsv.su.se/~jpalme/ietf/draft-palme-int-print-demo.zip


Method 1: Use wider margins

Paper format                                  
you use when                                  
converting                                    
the document                                  Suggested minimal margins
to Postscript Paper
or Acrobat    orien-       Suggested change   Left   Right  Top    Bot-
format        tation       of margins                              tom
------------  -----------  -----------------  -----  -----  -----  -----
A4            Portrait     Add 20 mm (0.8     15 mm  15 mm  35 mm  35 mm
              (upright,    inches) to the top 0.59"  0.59"  1.38"  1.38"
             horizontal)  of page and bottom
                          of page margins
                          
A4            Landscape    Add 20 mm (0.8     35 mm  35 mm  15 mm  15 mm
              (lying,      inches) to the     1.38"  1.38"  0.59"  0.59"
              vertical)    left and right
                          margins
                          
Palme               Do not implement based on this draft         [Page 2]
draft-palme-int-print-00.txt                                   June 1996


Letter        Portrait     Add 6 mm (0.2      21 mm  21 mm  15 mm  15 mm
              (upright,    inches) to the     0.82"  0.82"  0.59"  0.59"
             horizontal)  left and right
                          margins
                          
Letter        Landscape    Add 6 mm (0.2      15 mm  15 mm  21 mm  21 mm
              (lying,      inches) mm to the  0.59"  0.59"  0.82"  0.82"
             vertical)    top of page and
                          bottom of page
                          margins
                          
The reason why you have to add 20 respectively 6 mm to both the top and
the bottom margin is that you do not know what kind of printer the
recipient uses, and different printers feed paper in different ways,
requiring the margin to be added either at the top or the bottom of the
paper.


Method 2: Print with reduced size

This is a method useful for the recipient of a document with the wrong
paper size: The recipient sets the printer to print with reduced size.
When the sender produces the Acrobat or Postscript files, the sender
should "print" with 100 % size, but when the recipient prints the
Acrobat or Postscript files, and if the program for printing Acrobat or
Postscript files allows this, the recipient should print the document
with 92 % or less of full size. Many programs for printing Postscript
files do not allow this. In that case, the recipient can convert a
Postscript document to Acrobat format and then print it with the Acrobat
printing program. This requires, however, that the recipient has the
Acrobat Distiller program, which is not freeware.


15. Author's Address

Jacob Palme                          Phone: +46-8-16 16 67
Stockholm University and KTH         Fax: +46-8-783 08 29
Electrum 230                         E-mail: jpalme@dsv.su.se
S-164 40 Kista, Sweden















Palme               Do not implement based on this draft         [Page 3]
