CCAMP Working Group                                       Zafar Ali
Internet Draft                                   Antonello Bonfanti
Intended status: Standards Track                       Matt Hartley
                                                      Cisco Systems
                                                           F. Zhang
                                                Huawei Technologies
Expires: March 10, 2016                          September 10, 2015


    IANA Allocation Procedures for OTN Signal Type Subregistry to
               the GMPLS Signaling Parameters Registry
         draft-ietf-ccamp-otn-signal-type-subregistry-02.txt


Status of this Memo

This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
Task Force (IETF). Note that other groups may also distribute
working documents as Internet-Drafts. The list of current Internet-
Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
documents at any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts
as reference material or to cite them other than as "work in
progress."

This Internet-Draft will expire on March 10, 2015.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2015 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
document authors. All rights reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
(http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
publication of this document. Please review these documents
carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with
respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this
document must include Simplified BSD License text as described in
Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without
warranty as described in the Simplified BSD License.

This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF
Contributions published or made publicly available before November



Expires March 2016                                         [Page 1]

   draft-ietf-ccamp-otn-signal-type-subregistry-02.txt

10, 2008.  The person(s) controlling the copyright in some of this
material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow
modifications of such material outside the IETF Standards Process.
Without obtaining an adequate license from the person(s)
controlling the copyright in such materials, this document may not
be modified outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative
works of it may not be created outside the IETF Standards Process,
except to format it for publication as an RFC or to translate it
into languages other than English.

Abstract

IANA has defined an "OTN Signal Type" subregistry to the
"Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) Signaling
Parameters" registry. This draft proposes changes to the OTN Signal
Type subregistry to include Specification Required policies, as
defined in [RFC5226].

Conventions used in this document

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in
this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119
[RFC2119].

Table of Contents

   1. Introduction 2
   2. IANA Considerations 3
   3. References 3
     3.1. Normative References 3
     3.2. Informative References 3

1. Introduction

   [RFC4328] and [RFC7139] provide the extensions to the
   Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) signaling to
   control the full set of OTN features including ODU0, ODU1, ODU2,
   ODU3, ODU4, ODU2e and ODUflex. However, it does not cover
   additional signal types mentioned in [G.Sup43] (ODU1e, ODU3e1,
   and ODU3e2). As ODU1e, ODU3e1, and ODU3e2 signal types are only
   defined in an ITU-T supplementary document, IANA cannot allocate
   values from the Standards Action registration policy defined in
   [RFC5226].

   IANA maintains "OTN Signal Type" subregistry to the "Generalized
   Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) Signaling Parameters"
   registry for the OTN signal defined in [RFC4328] and [RFC7139].
   However, this subregistry currently is defined to only use the
   Standards Action registration policy as defined by [RFC5226].
   This document extends "OTN Signal Type" subregistry to also

                     Expires March 2016                   [Page 2]

   draft-ietf-ccamp-otn-signal-type-subregistry-02.txt

   support Specification Required policies, as defined in
   [RFC5226].





2. IANA Considerations

   IANA maintains the an "OTN Signal Type" subregistry to the
   "Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) Signaling
   Parameters" registry. The registry currently is defined to use
   the Standards Action registration policy as defined by
   [RFC5226]. This document directs that both Standards Action and
   IETF Review policies, as defined in [RFC5226], be applied to
   this subregistry. When needed, the Designated Expert shall be
   identified by a CCAMP WG chair or, in the case the group is no
   longer active, by the IESG.

3. Acknowledgments

   The authors would like to thank Lou Berger and Adrian Farrel for
   comments.

4. References


4.1. Normative References

   [RFC2119] Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
             Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

   [RFC4328] Papadimitriou, D., Ed., "Generalized Multi-Protocol
             Label Switching (GMPLS) Signaling Extensions for G.709
             Optical Transport Networks Control", RFC 4328, January
             2006.

   [RFC7139] Zhang, F., Ed., Zhang, G., Belotti, S., Ceccarelli,
             D., and K. Pithewan, "GMPLS Signaling Extensions for
             Control of Evolving G.709 Optical Transport Networks",
             RFC 7139, March 2014.

   [RFC5226] Narten, T. and H. Alvestrand, "Guidelines for Writing
             an IANA Considerations Section in RFCs", BCP 26, RFC
             5226, May 2008.


4.2. Informative References

   [GSUP.43] ITU-T, "Proposed revision of G.sup43 (for agreement)",
             February, 2011.
                     Expires March 2016                   [Page 3]

   draft-ietf-ccamp-otn-signal-type-subregistry-02.txt

Authors' Addresses


   Zafar Ali
   Cisco Systems
   Email: zali@cisco.com

   Antonello Bonfanti
   Cisco Systems
   abonfant@cisco.com

   Matt Hartley
   Cisco Systems
   mhartley@cisco.com

   Fatai Zhang
   Huawei Technologies
   Email: zhangfatai@huawei.com


































                     Expires March 2016                   [Page 4]

