

Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


                          Notification Log MIB

                              31 July 1998

                 draft-ietf-disman-notif-log-mib-03.txt

                              Bob Stewart
                          Cisco Systems, Inc.
                           bstewart@cisco.com





                          Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

To view the entire list of current Internet-Drafts, please check the
"1id-abstracts.txt" listing contained in the Internet-Drafts Shadow
Directories on ftp.is.co.za (Africa), ftp.nordu.net (Northern Europe),
ftp.nis.garr.it (Southern Europe), munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim),
ftp.ietf.org (US East Coast), or ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast).

Distribution of this document is unlimited. Please send comments to the
Distributed Management Working Group, <disman@nexen.com>.


Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1998).  All Rights Reserved.











Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                   [Page 1]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


1.  Abstract

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in the Internet
community.  In particular, it describes managed objects used for logging
SNMP Notifications.


2.  The SNMP Management Framework

The SNMP Management Framework presently consists of five major
components:

    o   An overall architecture, described in RFC 2271 [1].

    o   Mechanisms for describing and naming objects and events for the
        purpose of management. The first version of this Structure of
        Management Information (SMI) is called SMIv1 and described in
        RFC 1155 [2], RFC 1212 [3] and RFC 1215 [4]. The second version,
        called SMIv2, is described in RFC 1902 [5], RFC 1903 [6] and RFC
        1904 [7].

    o   Message protocols for transferring management information. The
        first version of the SNMP message protocol is called SNMPv1 and
        described in RFC 1157 [8]. A second version of the SNMP message
        protocol, which is not an Internet standards track protocol, is
        called SNMPv2c and described in RFC 1901 [9] and RFC 1906 [10].
        The third version of the message protocol is called SNMPv3 and
        described in RFC 1906 [10], RFC 2272 [11] and RFC 2274 [12].

    o   Protocol operations for accessing management information. The
        first set of protocol operations and associated PDU formats is
        described in RFC 1157 [8]. A second set of protocol operations
        and associated PDU formats is described in RFC 1905 [13].

    o   A set of fundamental applications described in RFC 2273 [14] and
        the view-based access control mechanism described in RFC 2275
        [15].

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the mechanisms defined in the SMI.

This memo specifies a MIB module that is compliant to the SMIv2. A MIB
conforming to the SMIv1 can be produced through the appropriate





Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                   [Page 2]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


translations. The resulting translated MIB must be semantically
equivalent, except where objects or events are omitted because no
translation is possible (use of Counter64). Some machine readable
information in SMIv2 will be converted into textual descriptions in
SMIv1 during the translation process. However, this loss of machine
readable information is not considered to change the semantics of the
MIB.











































Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                   [Page 3]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


3.  Overview

Systems that support SNMP often need a mechanism for recording
Notification information as a hedge against lost Notifications, whether
those are Traps or Informs that exceed retransmission limits.  This MIB
therefore provides common infrastructure for other MIBs in the form of a
local logging function.  It is intended primarily for senders of
Notifications but could be used also by receivers.

Given the Notification Log MIB, individual MIBs bear less responsibility
to record the transient information associated with an event against the
possibility that the Notification message is lost, and applications can
poll the log to know that they have not missed important Notifications
or to suspect that they might have.


3.1.  Environment

The overall environmental concerns for the MIB are:

    o   SNMP Engines and Contexts

    o   Security


3.1.1.  SNMP Engines and Contexts

As described in the SNMPv3 architecture [1], a given system may support
multiple SNMP engines operating independently of one another, each with
its own SNMP engine identification.  Furthermore, within the perview of
a given engine there may be multiple named management contexts
supporting overlapping or disjoint sets of MIB objects and
Notifications.  Thus understanding a particular Notification requires
knowing the SNMP engine and management context from whence it came.

The simplest system may have only one SNMP engine, and the simplest
engine may support only one context.  In these cases, knowledge of the
engine ID and context name can be assumed and need not be explicit.

In a given implementation, an instance of the Notification Log MIB may
be confined to a single engine or context or may combine information
from multiple engines or contexts, allowing for the full range of
exclusive or inclusive contents.

To provide the necessary source information for a logged Notification,





Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                   [Page 4]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


the MIB includes objects to record that Notification's source SNMP
engine ID and management context name.  In the case where such
information can be assumed, the related object need not be instantiated,
thus allowing the simplest implemenetation for the simplest system.


3.1.2.  Security

Except for the log itself security of this MIB falls under normal SNMP
security policies.

For the log, Notifications containing objects not within a requester's
authorized view will appear not to exist, thus causing apparent holes in
the log index space.

If the log contains Notifications from SNMP engines not part of the
local system, those Notifications fall under the overall local access
policy for the log.


3.2.  Structure

The MIB has the following sections:

    o   Configuration -- control over how much the log can hold and what
        Notifications are to be logged.

    o   Statistics -- indications of logging activity.

    o   Log -- the Notifications themselves.


3.2.1.  Configuration

The configuration section contains objects to manage resource use by the
MIB in units of either bytes or entries.

This section also contains a table that uses the initial index
(snmpNotifyFilterName) from the snmpNotifyFilterTable in the standard
SNMP Notification MIB, using those filters to provide a means of
deciding which Notifications are to be logged.









Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                   [Page 5]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


3.2.2.  Statistics

The statistics section contains counters for Notifications logged and
discarded, supplying a means to understand the results of log capacity
configuration.


3.2.3.  Log

The log contains the Notifications and the objects that came in their
variable binding list, indexed by an integer that reflects when the
entry was made.  An application that wants to collect all logged
Notifications or to know if it may have missed any can keep track of the
highest index it has retrieved and start from there on its next poll,
checking sysUpTime for a discontinuity that would have reset the index
and perhaps have lost entries.

Variables are in a table indexed by Notification index and variable
index within that Notification.  The values are kept as a "discriminated
union," with one value object per variable.  Exactly which value object
is instantiated depends on the SNMP data type of the variable, with a
separate object of appropriate type for each distinct SNMP data type.

An application can thus reconstruct the information from the
Notification PDU from what is recorded in the log.

























Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                   [Page 6]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


4.  Definitions

NOTIFICATION-LOG-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE,
    experimental, Integer32, Unsigned32,
    TimeTicks, Counter32, Counter64,
    IpAddress                           FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    TimeStamp, TruthValue,
    StorageType                         FROM SNMPv2-TC
    SnmpAdminString, SnmpEngineID       FROM SNMP-FRAMEWORK-MIB
    snmpNotifyFilterProfileName         FROM SNMP-NOTIFICATION-MIB
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP     FROM SNMPv2-CONF;

notificationLogMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9807311700Z"
    ORGANIZATION "IETF Distributed Management Working Group"
    CONTACT-INFO "Bob Stewart
                  Cisco Systems, Inc.
                  170 West Tasman Drive,
                  San Jose CA 95134-1706.
                  Phone: +1 408 526 4527
                  Email: bstewart@cisco.com"
    DESCRIPTION
        "The MIB module for logging SNMP Notifications, that is, Traps
        and Informs."
    ::= { experimental xx }


notificationLogMIBObjects OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { notificationLogMIB 1 }

nlmConfig               OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { notificationLogMIBObjects 1 }
nlmStats                OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { notificationLogMIBObjects 2 }
nlmLog                  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { notificationLogMIBObjects 3 }

--
-- Configuration Section
--

nlmConfigEntryLimitUnits OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER { entries(1), bytes(2) }
    MAX-ACCESS  read-write
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION





Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                   [Page 7]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


        "The units for nlmConfigEntryLimit.  See nlmConfigEntryLimit for
        further details.

        Implementations may allow choice of unit types or may chose
        either unit type and not allow it to be changed."
    ::= { nlmConfig 1 }

nlmConfigEntryLimit OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-write
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The maximum number of entries or bytes that can be held in
        nlmLogTable.

        If an application changes the limit while there are Notifications
        in the log, the oldest Notifications are discarded to bring the
        log down to the new limit.

        Measuring in bytes is not necessarily subject to exact external
        calculations as to what will fit, as the implementation may or
        may not include internal overhead and is free to use any internal
        incoding.

        Implementations may choose a limit and not allow it to be
        changed or may enforce an upper bound on the limit."
    ::= { nlmConfig 2 }

--
-- Notify Table Logging Control Table
--

nlmConfigLogControlTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF NlmConfigLogControlEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A table of logging control entries, related to filter profiles
        from the SNMP Notification MIB."
    ::= { nlmConfig 3 }

nlmConfigLogControlEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      NlmConfigLogControlEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current





Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                   [Page 8]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


    DESCRIPTION
        "A logging control entry.  Depending on the entry's storage type
        entries may be supplied by the system or created and deleted by
        applications using nlmConfigLogControlStatus."
    INDEX      { snmpNotifyFilterProfileName }
    ::= { nlmConfigNotifyTable 1 }

NlmConfigLogControlEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    nlmConfigLogControlLog              TruthValue,
    nlmConfigLogControlStorageType      StorageType,
    nlmConfigLogControlStatus           RowStatus
    }

nlmConfigLogControlLog OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Control for whether this set of Notifications is logged in
        nlmLogTable."
    DEFVAL { false }
    ::= { nlmConfigLogControlEntry 1 }

nlmConfigLogControlStorageType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     StorageType
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The storage type of this conceptual row."
    DEFVAL { false }
    ::= { nlmConfigLogControlEntry 2 }

nlmConfigLogControlStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Control for creating and deleting entries.  Entries may be
        modified while active."
    DEFVAL { createAndWait }
    ::= { nlmConfigLogControlEntry 3 }

--
-- Statisitics Section
--





Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                   [Page 9]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


nlmStatsNotificationsLogged OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    UNITS       "entries"
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of Notifications put in the nlmLogTable."
    ::= { nlmStats 1 }

nlmStatsEntriesDiscarded OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    UNITS       "entries"
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of log entries discarded to make room for a new
        entry or because of a change in nlmConfigEntryLimitUnits or
        nlmConfigEntryLimit."
    ::= { nlmStats 2 }

--
-- Log Section
--

--
-- Log Table
--

nlmLogTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF NlmLogEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A table of Notification log entries.

        It is an implementation-specific matter whether entries in this
        table are preserved across initializations of the management
        system.  In general one would expect that they are not."
    ::= { nlmLog 1 }

nlmLogEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      NlmLogEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION





Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                  [Page 10]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


        "A Notification log entry.

        Entries appear in this table when Notifications occur and are
        enabled for logging by nlmConfigNotifyLog.  They are removed to
        make way for new entries or in response to an application
        setting nlmConfigEntryLimit or nlmConfigEntryLimitUnits to
        reduce capacity."
    INDEX       { nlmLogIndex }
    ::= { nlmLogTable 1 }

NlmLogEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    nlmLogIndex                 Unsigned32,
    nlmLogTime                  TimeStamp,
    nlmLogEngineID              SnmpEngineID,
    nlmLogContextName           SnmpAdminString,
    nlmLogVariables             Unsigned32,
    nlmLogNotificationID        OBJECT IDENTIFIER
}

nlmLogIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Unsigned32 (1..4294967295)
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A monotonically increasing integer for the sole purpose of
        indexing entries.  When it reaches the maximum value, an
        extremely unlikely event, the agent wraps the value back
        to 1 and may flush existing entries."
    ::= { nlmLogEntry 1 }

nlmLogTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value of sysUpTime when the entry occurred."
    ::= { nlmLogEntry 2 }

nlmLogEngineID OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SnmpEngineID
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The identification of the SNMP engine at which the Notification
        originated.





Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                  [Page 11]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


        If the log can contain Notifications from only one engine this
        object need not be instantiated."
    ::= { nlmLogEntry 3 }

nlmLogContextName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SnmpAdminString
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The name of the SNMP MIB context from which the Notification
        came.

        If the Notification's source SNMP engine does not support
        multiple contexts, this object need not be instantiated."
    ::= { nlmLogEntry 4 }

nlmLogVariables OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of variables in nlmLogVariableTable for this
        Notification."
    ::= { nlmLogEntry 5 }

nlmLogNotificationID OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OBJECT IDENTIFIER
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The NOTIFICATION-TYPE object identifer of the Notification that
        occurred."
    ::= { nlmLogEntry 6 }

--
-- Log Variable Table
--

nlmLogVariableTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF NlmLogVariableEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A table of variables to go with Notification log entries."
    ::= { nlmLog 2 }





Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                  [Page 12]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


nlmLogVariableEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      NlmLogVariableEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A Notification log entry variable.

        Entries appear in this table when there are variables in
        the varbind list of a Notification in nlmLogTable."
    INDEX       { nlmLogIndex, nlmLogVariableIndex }
    ::= { nlmLogVariableTable 1 }

NlmLogVariableEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    nlmLogVariableIndex                 Unsigned32,
    nlmLogVariableID                    OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
    nlmLogVariableValueType             INTEGER,
    nlmLogVariableCounter32Val          Counter32,
    nlmLogVariableUnsigned32Val         Unsigned32,
    nlmLogVariableTimeTicksVal          TimeTicks,
    nlmLogVariableInteger32Val          Integer32,
    nlmLogVariableOctetStringVal        OCTET STRING,
    nlmLogVariableIpAddressVal          IpAddress,
    nlmLogVariableOidVal                OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
    nlmLogVariableCounter64Val          Counter64
}

nlmLogVariableIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Unsigned32 (1..4294967295)
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A monotonically increasing integer, starting at 1 for a given
        nlmLogIndex, for indexing variables within the logged Notification."
    ::= { nlmLogVariableEntry 1 }

nlmLogVariableID OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX     OBJECT IDENTIFIER
        MAX-ACCESS read-only
        STATUS     current
        DESCRIPTION
                "The variable's object identifier."
        ::= { nlmLogVariableEntry 2 }

nlmLogVariableValueType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER { counter32(1), unsignedOrGauge32(2),





Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                  [Page 13]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


                          timeTicks(3), integer32(4), ipAddress(5),
                          octetString(6), objectId(7), counter64(8) }
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The type of the value.  One and only one of the value
        objects that follow is instantiated, based on this type."
    ::= { nlmLogVariableEntry 3 }

nlmLogVariableCounter32Val OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value when nlmLogVariableType is 'counter32'."
    ::= { nlmLogVariableEntry 4 }

nlmLogVariableUnsigned32Val OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value when nlmLogVariableType is 'unsignedOrGauge32'."
    ::= { nlmLogVariableEntry 5 }

nlmLogVariableTimeTicksVal OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value when nlmLogVariableType is 'timeTicks'."
    ::= { nlmLogVariableEntry 6 }

nlmLogVariableInteger32Val OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value when nlmLogVariableType is 'integer32'."
    ::= { nlmLogVariableEntry 7 }

nlmLogVariableOctetStringVal OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current





Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                  [Page 14]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


    DESCRIPTION
        "The value when nlmLogVariableType is 'octetString'."
    ::= { nlmLogVariableEntry 8 }

nlmLogVariableIpAddressVal OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value when nlmLogVariableType is 'ipAddress'."
    ::= { nlmLogVariableEntry 9 }

nlmLogVariableOidVal OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OBJECT IDENTIFIER
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value when nlmLogVariableType is 'objectId'."
    ::= { nlmLogVariableEntry 10 }

nlmLogVariableCounter64Val OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value when nlmLogVariableType is 'counter64'."
    ::= { nlmLogVariableEntry 11 }


--
-- Conformance
--

notificationLogMIBConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { notificationLogMIB 3 }
notificationLogMIBCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {
notificationLogMIBConformance 1 }
notificationLogMIBGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {
notificationLogMIBConformance 2 }

-- Compliance

notificationLogMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
                "The compliance statement for entities which implement
                the Notification Log MIB."
        MODULE  -- this module





Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                  [Page 15]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


                MANDATORY-GROUPS {
                        notificationLogConfigGroup,
                        notificationLogStatsGroup,
                        notificationLogLogGroup
                }
        ::= { notificationLogMIBCompliances 1 }

-- Units of Conformance

notificationLogConfigGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
                nlmConfigEntryLimitUnits,
                nlmConfigEntryLimit,
                nlmConfigNotifyLog
        }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
                "Notification log configuration management."
        ::= { notificationLogMIBGroups 1 }

notificationLogStatsGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
                nlmStatsNotificationsLogged,
                nlmStatsEntriesDiscarded
        }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
                "Notification log statistics."
        ::= { notificationLogMIBGroups 2 }

notificationLogLogGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
                nlmLogTime,
                nlmLogEngineID,
                nlmLogContextName,
                nlmLogVariables,
                nlmLogNotificationID,

                nlmLogVariableID,
                nlmLogVariableValueType,
                nlmLogVariableCounter32Val,
                nlmLogVariableUnsigned32Val,
                nlmLogVariableTimeTicksVal,
                nlmLogVariableInteger32Val,
                nlmLogVariableOctetStringVal,





Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                  [Page 16]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


                nlmLogVariableIpAddressVal,
                nlmLogVariableOidVal,
                nlmLogVariableCounter64Val
        }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
                "Notification log data."
        ::= { notificationLogMIBGroups 3 }

END








































Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                  [Page 17]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


5.  References

[1]  Harrington, D., Presuhn, R., and B. Wijnen, "An Architecture for
     Describing SNMP Management Frameworks", RFC 2271, Cabletron
     Systems, Inc., BMC Software, Inc., IBM T. J. Watson Research,
     January 1998

[2]  Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Structure and Identification of
     Management Information for TCP/IP-based Internets", RFC 1155,
     Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems, May 1990

[3]  Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Concise MIB Definitions", RFC 1212,
     Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems, March 1991

[4]  M. Rose, "A Convention for Defining Traps for use with the SNMP",
     RFC 1215, Performance Systems International, March 1991

[5]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Structure
     of Management Information for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902, SNMP Research,Inc., Cisco
     Systems, Inc., Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network
     Services, January 1996.

[6]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Textual
     Conventions for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1903, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[7]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Conformance
     Statements for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1904, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[8]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin, "Simple Network
     Management Protocol", RFC 1157, SNMP Research, Performance Systems
     International, Performance Systems International, MIT Laboratory
     for Computer Science, May 1990.

[9]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser,
     "Introduction to Community-based SNMPv2", RFC 1901, SNMP Research,
     Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.,
     International Network Services, January 1996.






Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                  [Page 18]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


[10] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Transport
     Mappings for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1906, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[11] Case, J., Harrington D., Presuhn R., and B. Wijnen, "Message
     Processing and Dispatching for the Simple Network Management
     Protocol (SNMP)", RFC 2272, SNMP Research, Inc., Cabletron Systems,
     Inc., BMC Software, Inc., IBM T. J. Watson Research, January 1998.

[12] Blumenthal, U., and B. Wijnen, "User-based Security Model (USM) for
     version 3 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv3)", RFC
     2274, IBM T. J. Watson Research, January 1998.

[13] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Protocol
     Operations for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[14] Levi, D., Meyer, P., and B. Stewart, "SNMPv3 Applications", RFC
     2273, SNMP Research, Inc., Secure Computing Corporation, Cisco
     Systems, January 1998

[15] Wijnen, B., Presuhn, R., and K. McCloghrie, "View-based Access
     Control Model (VACM) for the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMP)", RFC 2275, IBM T. J. Watson Research, BMC Software, Inc.,
     Cisco Systems, Inc., January 1998





















Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                  [Page 19]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


6.  Security Considerations

Security issues are discussed in the overview.


7.  Author's Address

     Bob Stewart
     Cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive
     San Jose, CA 95134-1706

     Phone: 408-526-4527
     Email: bstewart@cisco.com




































Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                  [Page 20]





Internet Draft            Notification Log MIB              31 July 1998


Table of Contents


1 Abstract ........................................................    2
2 The SNMP Management Framework ...................................    2
3 Overview ........................................................    4
3.1 Environment ...................................................    4
3.1.1 SNMP Engines and Contexts ...................................    4
3.1.2 Security ....................................................    5
3.2 Structure .....................................................    5
3.2.1 Configuration ...............................................    5
3.2.2 Statistics ..................................................    6
3.2.3 Log .........................................................    6
4 Definitions .....................................................    7
5 References ......................................................   18
6 Security Considerations .........................................   20
7 Author's Address ................................................   20

































Expires 31 July 1998+6 months                                  [Page 21]

