SIMPLE                                                  A. Roychowdhury 
Internet Draft                                    Hughes Systique Corp. 
Intended status: Informational                             July 18, 2007 
Expires January 18, 2008            
 
                                      
                  Motivation for feed for Presence State 
                    draft-roy-simple-presencerss-01.txt 


Status of this Memo 

   By submitting this Internet-Draft, each author represents that       
   any applicable patent or other IPR claims of which he or she is       
   aware have been or will be disclosed, and any of which he or she       
   becomes aware will be disclosed, in accordance with Section 6 of       
   BCP 79. 

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering 
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that 
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts. 

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months 
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any 
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference 
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress." 

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at 
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt 

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at 
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html 

   This Internet-Draft will expire on January 18, 2007. 

Copyright Notice 

   Copyright (C) The IETF Trust (2007). 

Abstract 

   Web feeds (hereby referred to as 'feed') have always played an 
   important role in providing users content related updates of Websites 
   without having to visit those websites manually. Typical examples of 
   feed usage include users 'subscribing' to the feed of a website 
   (example, CNN.com) and thereby automatically receiving 'news 
   headlines' when the content changes. Recently, there have been 
 
 
 
Roychowdhury           Expires January 18, 2008                [Page 1] 

Internet-Draft      Motivation for feed for Presence State 
 
    

   significant innovations (example [13][12]) where feeds from different 
   sources have been combined to produce new services in a 'Web Based 
   Service Creation Environment' model allowing users to create 
   interesting services building on top of 'primitives' that can be 
   represented on the Web.   

   This document describes the motivation for a feed for Presence 
   information, which the authors believe would be useful to create new 
   services using a similar environment described above. 

   NOTE 1:  Architecturally, it is also possible that the reverse 
   situation, i.e. feed converted to a Presence state is also useful, 
   typically for services that could be triggered at the Presentity 
   based on certain conditions. However, this document focuses on the 
   former, i.e. Presence state to feed.  

   NOTE 2: It is not necessary that each PUA support the capability of 
   generating feeds. It is possible that a central aggregation server 
   generates the required feed on behalf of the PUAs.  

Conventions used in this document 

   In examples, "C:" and "S:" indicate lines sent by the client and 
   server respectively. 

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", 
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this 
   document are to be interpreted as described in RFC-2119 [1]. 


















 
 
Roychowdhury           Expires January 18, 2008                [Page 2] 

Internet-Draft      Motivation for feed for Presence State 
 
    

    

Table of Contents 

    
   1. Terminology....................................................4 
   2. Introduction to feeds and Web based Mash-ups...................4 
   3. Use Cases for Presence State represented as feed...............7 
   4. Examples.......................................................8 
      4.1. 'Track-it' service........................................8 
            4.1.1.1. Assumptions for this service...................10 
            4.1.1.2. Creation of the Mash-Up........................10 
            4.1.1.3. Example of Trackit Server receiving Presence 
            information.............................................11 
            4.1.1.4. Example of Trackit Server publishing feed......12 
   5. Working Example...............................................13 
   6. Security Considerations.......................................13 
   7. IANA Considerations...........................................13 
   8. Conclusions & Future work.....................................14 
   9. Acknowledgments...............................................14 
   10. References...................................................15 
      10.1. Normative...............................................15 
      10.2. Informative.............................................15 
   Author's Addresses...............................................16 
   Intellectual Property Statement..................................16 
   Disclaimer of Validity...........................................17 
    



















 
 
Roychowdhury           Expires January 18, 2008                [Page 3] 

Internet-Draft      Motivation for feed for Presence State 
 
    

    
1. Terminology 

   o  The following terminology has been used in the document: 

   o  For the scope of this document the term 'Web' refers to an 
      environment where the 'Server' is any entity which is accessible 
      on the Internet that can communicate with the User Agent using 
      standards such as URIs, HTTP, HTML, XML and similar. 'User Agent' 
      is any entity capable of rendering the information provided by the 
      server (for example, a Browser) 

   o  The term 'feed' describes syndicated feed and includes feed format 
      as specified by both RSS([9]) and ATOM([10]). In future, the 
      'feed' format could also be extended to other formats including 
      [11] 

   o  The terms 'feature provider', 'provider', 'service provider' refer 
      to any individual user or entity that is/are capable of hosting 
      the mentioned feature or service 

    

2. Introduction to feeds and Web based Mash-ups  

   This section may be useful to readers not familiar with Web based 
   Mash-ups in general. Readers well versed with this may directly skip 
   to the next section. 

   Simply put, a 'feed' is a data format which describes content of any 
   data source. Content distributors syndicate a web feed, thereby 
   allowing users to subscribe to the feed (source:[15]). There are two 
   commonly used feed formats as specified in. When this document refers 
   to the term 'feed' it implies feed in either format. 

   The fundamental concept behind a 'Mash-up' is to be able to create a 
   set of primitives and make it available on the Web in a way that 
   those primitives could be used by any third party developer to extend 
   and build upon the provided functionality. In concept, this is 
   similar to creating a set of 'C (or any other programming language)-
   based libraries' and offering APIs on top of those libraries to 
   others to create new functionality, but has significant differences: 

   o  A 'Web' based Mash-up re-uses well known protocols for accessing 
      sources (example HTTP, REST) 

 
 
Roychowdhury           Expires January 18, 2008                [Page 4] 

Internet-Draft      Motivation for feed for Presence State 
 
    

   o  A 'Web' based Mash-up re-uses well known formats for accessing 
      data contained within sources (example JSON [11], XML [6], RSS 
      [9]) 

   o  A 'Web' based Mash-up may have multiple hosting environments. In 
      other words, if feature provider 'B' were build a new application 
      on top of a feature provided by 'A', B would only access content 
      from A using well known Web Standards and would not need to host 
      A's content in its own domain. Similarly, A does not need to 
      access any more data in B's domain beyond what is needed to make 
      the service work. 

   o  A 'Web' based Mash-up leverages the vast content that is already 
      accessible across the Internet in a well defined manner and does 
      not require duplication or local availability of data in different 
      domains 

   o  As a derivative difference, a 'Web' bashed Mash-up is therefore 
      accessible by any common browser and does not need special 
      libraries or downloads beyond what the browser already supports. 

   As an example of how services can be created rapidly using the Web 
      Model: 

   o  Consider an example, where a subscriber using a 'triple play' 
      service  (one that offers Voice, TV and Data over a single IP 
      pipe) is listening to a radio stream of their favorite song. The 
      provider wants to be able to tap into this by showing a list of 
      locations where the artist of that song may be performing in the 
      coming months as well as show a preview video of the song he is 
      listening to (in the  hope that the subscriber might purchase one 
      of these offerings). Such as combined solution can be easily 
      provided leveraging the Web and the Internet: 

       o Let us assume the radio service itself publishes the currently 
          playing information (such as Artist, Title, etc.)   

       o The provider can fetch the name of the artist and provide it as 
          an input to common ticketing sites (like TicketMaster) which 
          in turn returns the list of locations where this group is 
          performing 

       o  At the same time, the provider can fetch the name of the radio 
          song & title and feed it to a video service, which generates a 
          response feed with the URI of the preview video which is then 
          displayed as a small window on the subscriber's display  
 
 
Roychowdhury           Expires January 18, 2008                [Page 5] 

Internet-Draft      Motivation for feed for Presence State 
 
    

       o The provider also taps into e-commerce sites with the same 
          input parameters and receives a feed response on links to 'Buy 
          it now' for the subscriber to place an order for this album 

The above example describes rapid creation of a combined service where 
the provider is re-using already existing data sources & technologies in 
a standard way to create this value addition. Creating such services is 
not just theory today. Consider for example, solutions like [12]and [13] 
that provide such environments for regular users to create such 
combinations.  

Note that the above is possible only if the output of each component is 
understood by other components. Feed formats as defined [9] and [10] are 
dialects of XML and are a popularly supported content syndication format 
and is therefore a common 'data formats' that are often used to exchange 
information between different modules hosted by different providers. 
Feeds therefore, provide easy to understand "tags" under which 
information is classified and can be extracted by standard XML parsers. 
In addition, feed formats allow for easy implementation of 'Filters' as 
services are combined (For example, 'Show me all movies from Youtube 
that do not have rating=Mature' may translate to parsing the feed and 
deleting feed entries that have a <rating> tag of Mature) 

In each of these examples, the following important characteristics 
emerge: 

   o  Adopting a 'Web based' approach to create incremental services 
      (referred to as 'Mash-Ups') significantly reduces service creation 
      time (since the interfaces are well known and do not require a 
      steep learning curve) 

   o  Adopting a 'Web based Mash-up' approach significantly reduces the 
      infrastructure and technology requirement from a single provider 

    

   Thus, this model works well when: 

   o  The effectiveness of what can be achieved is directly related to 
      the nature of data and access each domain is willing to expose to 
      build upon. 

   o  The feed based model of constructing combined services is a simple 
      chain of output of one module serving as an input to another and 
      does not provide complex flow control logic  

 
 
Roychowdhury           Expires January 18, 2008                [Page 6] 

Internet-Draft      Motivation for feed for Presence State 
 
    

    

   This therefore leads us to why we believe exposing certain SIP 
      related data in such a standard format would benefit more value 
      added service creation. 

 

3. Use Cases for Presence State represented as feed. 

   In all the use-cases below, publishing the information in feed format 
   enables third party developers to create new combined services 
   without requiring any other specialized tools or protocols beyond 
   free Mash-up editors [12][13] that already exist today. 

   Use-Case-1: Consider a user Bob, who subscribes to an ad-supported 
   live traffic service that provides him with up to date traffic 
   information for one of his selected highway routes on I-270N. This is 
   provided to him as a feed to see a live traffic map update. However, 
   it would be useful if the traffic service could ask for Bob's current 
   Presence state and provide information accordingly. For example, if 
   Bob's <activities> element shows a value of 'in-transit', then the 
   provider can choose to filter out or reduce the sidebar ads so that 
   it is simpler for Bob to convert the feed to speech using free tools 
   available such as [14] 

   o  Use-Case-2: Consider another example where user Alice is in a 
      community chat room, and has her mood (via the <mood> element) set 
      to <hungry> with a child element <note> set to "would love a 
      burger". The Chat provider can create a sidebar customized service 
      by putting the following elements together: 

       o Get the Presence feed from Alice's UA and parse the hungry 
          element 

       o Assuming Alice's presence feed also publishes location, 
          retrieve current location 

       o Pass on the note text and the location to Yahoo Local Maps and 
          obtain a list of burger places and display that feed on the 
          sidebar 

       o (One could continue to combine more attributes to make this 
          more specific) 


 
 
Roychowdhury           Expires January 18, 2008                [Page 7] 

Internet-Draft      Motivation for feed for Presence State 
 
    

   o  Use-Case-3: 'Trackit' is a presence publishing system that allows 
   different Presentities to update their presence state periodically. 
   Presentities that publish their state also specify access rules which 
   govern who can read this presence data (example "all", "none", or 
   explicit list of identities, domains etc.). Bob is a subscriber to 
   'Trackit' and decides to offer a 'Map & Track' service on top of 
   Trackit like so: 

       o users, who publish their state in Trackit create ad-hoc groups 
          of friends, co-workers and publish an additional attribute in 
          their presence information, such as <mnt:mapandtrack-
          group>AlumniMeet</mnt:mapandtrack-group> 

       o Members of the group called AlumniMeet can now log into a 
          specific webpage provided by Bob which provides a movable map 
          with 'presence markers' of where each user currently is and 
          what they are doing (subject to what each presentity agrees to 
          publish).  

       o Bob creates the above page by accessing the feed provided by 
          Trackit for the group members, extracts the location and 
          activities elements, passes the location information to an 
          appropriate mapping service and then overlays the map with 
          placepoint information showing their presence status. 

       o  Now, if the users are all supposed to meet at 6PM for the 
          alumni meeting at Palo Alto, the co-ordinator knows where 
          everyone is, how long they would take to arrive and other 
          information. 

4. Examples 

   This section provides examples on how some of the services described 
   in Section 3.  

   The author has chosen to use Google Mash-up Editor (GME) [13] as a 
   platform for demonstrating how some of the use cases can be 
   implemented. The same examples Readers can translate these examples 
   to other Mash-up environments based on feeds.  

4.1. 'Track-it' service 

   In this example, we describe how the 'Track-it' service can be 
   implemented as a Mash-up based on GME. The overall architecture 
   depicts all the entities participating in this service: 

 
 
Roychowdhury           Expires January 18, 2008                [Page 8] 

Internet-Draft      Motivation for feed for Presence State 
 
    

    .................................................................... 
    .    +---+  +---+      +---+                         domain A      . 
    .    |   |  |   |......|   +--------------------+                  . 
    .    |   |  |   |      |   |                    |                  . 
    .    +---+  +---+      +---+                    |                  . 
    .     PUA1   PUA2       PUAn                    |                  . 
    .................................................................... 
            \     |        //                       | 
           SIP   SIP    SIP                         |HTTP 
              \   |    //                           |(management 
    ..........................................      |/list creation 
    .           \ |//              domain B  .      |etc.) 
    .       +---------+                      .      | 
    .       |         |                      .      | 
    .       |         |                      .      | 
    .       | Trackit |                      .      | 
    .       |         |                      .      | 
    .       |         |                      .      | 
    .       |         |                      .      | 
    .       +---------+                      .      | 
    .       Presence                         .      | 
    .       Aggregation                      .      | 
    .       server                           .      | 
    ..........................................      | 
                |                                   | 
         ............................................................. 
         .      |                                   |       domain C . 
         .      |         +---------------+   +-----+--------+       . 
         .      |         |               |   |              |       . 
         .      |         |               |   |              |       . 
         .      +---------+               |   | Map&Track    |       . 
         .       HTTP     | Map & Track   |   |  WebServer   |       . 
         .         (Feed) |   App Server  |   |              |       . 
         .                |               |   |              |       . 
         .        +-------+               |   |              |       . 
         .        |       +----------+----+   +-----+--------+       . 
         .        |                  |              |                . 
         .        |HTTP              +--------------+                . 
         .        |(Map Data)        RPC/Api                         . 
         ............................................................. 
         ............................................................. 
         .        |                                     domain D     . 
         .     +--+------------+                                     . 
         .     |               |                                     . 
         .     |  Maps         |                                     . 
         .     |  Server       |                                     . 
 
 
Roychowdhury           Expires January 18, 2008                [Page 9] 

Internet-Draft      Motivation for feed for Presence State 
 
    

         .     +-----+---------+                                     . 
         ............|................................................ 
         ............|. . . . . ..................................... 
         .       +---+----------+                     domain E      . 
         .       |              |                                   . 
         .       | Map Data     |                                   . 
         .       |              |                                   . 
         .       +--------------+                                   . 
         ............................................................ 
    

   We will focus on the data exchange and call flow for "domain C" which 
   is the domain where the Mash-up is being implemented. 

4.1.1.1. Assumptions for this service 

   PUAs alice@example1.com, bob@example2.com, joe@example3.com are 
   subscribers who participate in publishing their presence state to the 
   Trackit server. The presence document published by the PUAs are 
   compliant to the document format specified in [2][3][4]. The PUAs are 
   further assumed to have capability to publish location information 
   compliant to the GEOPRIV location object format specified in [7](The 
   location information may be provided to the PUAs via an installed GPS 
   chip, or by  network assisted GPS etc.) 

   It is further assumed Bob, Alice and Joe have already registered with 
   the Map&Track web-server and have created a group called 
   'AlumniParty' for which they would like to track their location and 
   presence. Furthermore, all the above mentioned UAs have a local 
   client capable of receving the image slices overlayed with presence 
   information that Map&Track creates. 

4.1.1.2. Creation of the Mash-Up 

   The template for the Mash-UP in GME can be as follows: 

   (Readers are encouraged to refer to documentation of [13] for 
   complete details. However, for the sake of completeness, a brief 
   description is provided below each code segment. 

    

   <div style="float:left;width="50%">  



 
 
Roychowdhury           Expires January 18, 2008               [Page 10] 

Internet-Draft      Motivation for feed for Presence State 
 
    

     <gm:list id="PresenceFeed" 
   data="http://www.mapandtrack.com/group0aE952.xml" 
   pagesize="25"/></div> 

   Explanation: The above lines create a list which will be populated 
   with the presence feed from Alice, Bob and Joe. The URL 
   http://www.mapandtrack.com/group0aE952.xml represents a URL generated 
   by MapandTrack when the users created their Alumni Group, and will 
   contain the aggregated presence documents from each PUA. 

    

   <div style="float:left;width="50%">  

   <gm:map id="PresenceFeedMapMarkers" data="${PresenceFeed}" 
   latref="geo:lat" lngref="geo:long"> 

       <gm:handleEvent src="PresenceFeed"/> 

     </gm:map></div> 

   Explanation: The above lines create an association between the map 
   object and the PresenceFeed xml list shown earlier. Specifically, the 
   handleEvent tag creates an association where the map object 'listens' 
   to the PresenceFeed list. When the user clicks on an item in the 
   PresenceFeed list (an item could be the presence state of one of the 
   users), the Lattitude (geo:lat) and Longitude (geo:long) is extracted 
   and sent to the map object as input. 

4.1.1.3. Example of Trackit Server receiving Presence information 

   Alice's PUA publishes the following Presence document (only relevant 
   excerpts shown)to the Trackit server possibly by a SIP NOTIFY message 

   <status> 

      <gp:geopriv> 

         <gp:location-info> 

           <gml:location> 

             <gml:Point gml:id="point1" srsName="epsg:4326"> 

               <gml:coordinates>37:46:30N 122:25:10W</gml:coordinates> 

 
 
Roychowdhury           Expires January 18, 2008               [Page 11] 

Internet-Draft      Motivation for feed for Presence State 
 
    

             </gml:Point> 

            </gml:location> 

         </gp:location-info> 

         <gp:usage-rules> 

           <gp:retransmission-allowed>no</gp:retransmission-allowed> 

           <gp:retention-expiry>2003-06-23T04:57:29Z</gp:retention-
   expiry> 

         </gp:usage-rules> 

       </gp:geopriv> 

         <basic>open</basic> 

      </status> 

   This in turn could be translated to the following feed generated by 
   the Trackit 

    

4.1.1.4. Example of Trackit Server publishing feed 

   This section is illustrative only. The exact mapping between the 
   presence document and the feed format may be addressed in a future 
   Internet Draft. 

   After Alice's PUA updates Trackit with a recent presence information, 
   the TrackitServer could expose the following format when Map&Track 
   server (the third party Mash-up) requests the Presence feed using the 
   URI specified (in this case 
   http://www.mapandtrack.com/group0aE952.xml) 

      (only relevant portions of feed shown) 

      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?> 

      <rss version="2.0" xmlns:presrss="http://www.example.com/rsspres"  
   xmlns:geo="http://www.w3.org/2003/01/geo/wgs84_pos#" > 

      <channel> 
 
 
Roychowdhury           Expires January 18, 2008               [Page 12] 

Internet-Draft      Motivation for feed for Presence State 
 
    

      <title> Presence Feed for AlumniParty </title> 

      <item> 

      <rsspres:id-name>Alice</rsspres:id-name> 

      <rsspres:id-uri> sip:alice@example1.com </rsspres:id-uri> 

      <rsspres:presence>online</rsspres:presence> 

      <geo:long>-123.618334</geo:long> 

      <geo:lat>41.12505189</geo:lat> 

      </item> 

   </channel> 

   </rss> 

    

5. Working Example 

   As a working example of a proof-of-concept Mash-up development using 
   these concepts, readers are encouraged to visit [16] 

    

6. Security Considerations 

   Security conditions that apply to publishing of Presence Information 
   as specified in [2][3][4] also apply here. In addition, a Web based 
   Mash-up model involves interaction of data from multiple, 
   disconnected domains. By only enabling HTTP GET to retrieve a feed 
   across domains reduces the potential attacks, but it is critical for 
   the domains participating in a mash-up service to secure their data 
   appropriately.  

   Furthermore, it is assumed that all presence authorization rules are 
   applied to the Presence Information before they are published as a 
   feed. 

7. IANA Considerations 

   None identified 
 
 
Roychowdhury           Expires January 18, 2008               [Page 13] 

Internet-Draft      Motivation for feed for Presence State 
 
    

8. Conclusions & Future work 

   This draft describes the motivation for providing Presence related 
   data as a feed. The primary advantage that has been described is that 
   this allows third party developers to rapidly & incrementally create 
   new services using standard web-tools. 

   As further work, it may be possible that non-presence related SIP 
   data is also identified as potentially useful in created services 
   chained by feeds.  

   A possible next step is to work on a specification that describes a 
   feed format for Presence tags that could be adhered to by 
   Presentities wanting to publish such attributes. 

9. Acknowledgments 

   Thanks to Henry Sinnreich, Eric Burger for providing detailed review 
   comments on the initial version of this draft. Walter Goix's comments 
   are appreciated.


























 
 
Roychowdhury           Expires January 18, 2008               [Page 14] 

Internet-Draft      Motivation for feed for Presence State 
 
    

    

10. References 

10.1. Normative 

   [1]   Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement 
         Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997. 

   [2]   Rosenberg, J., "A Data Model for Presence", RFC 4479, July 2006 

   [3]   Schulzrinne, H., "CIPID:Contact information for the Presence 
         Information Data Format", RFC 4482, July 2006 

   [4]   Schulzrinne,H., Gurbani,V., Kyzviat,P., Rosenberg,J. "RPID:Rich 
         Presence Extensions to the Presence Information Data Format 
         (PIDF)", RFC 4480, July 2006 

   [5]   Fielding,R., Taylor,R. "Principled design of the modern Web 
         architecture", ACM Transactions on Internet Technology (TOIT), 
         Volume 2, Issue 2 (May 2002), ACM Press, ISSN:1533-5399  

   [6]   Bray,T., Paoli,J., Sperberg-McQueen,C.M., Maler,E., Yergeau,F., 
         "Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Fourth Edition)", 
         September 2006 

   [7]   Peterson, T., "A Presence-based GEOPRIV Location Object 
         Format", RFC 4119, December 2005 

   [8]   Rosenberg, J., Schulzrinne, H., Camarillo, G., Johnston, A.,         
         Peterson, J., Sparks, R., Handley, M., and E. Schooler, "SIP:         
         Session Initiation Protocol", RFC 3261, June 2002 

    

10.2. Informative 

   [9]   RSS Advisory Board, "RSS 2.0 Specification", 
         http://www.rssboard.org/rss-specification  

   [10]  Nottingham,N., Sayre,R. "The Atom Syndication Format", RFC 
         4287, December 2005 

   [11]  Javascript Object Notation (JSON), http://www.json.org/  

   [12]  Yahoo Pipes, http://pipes.yahoo.com  
 
 
Roychowdhury           Expires January 18, 2008               [Page 15] 

Internet-Draft      Motivation for feed for Presence State 
 
    

   [13]  Google Mash-up Editor, http://code.google.com/gme/index.html  

   [14]  RSS to Speech Gadget, 
         http://desktop.google.com/plugins/i/rsstospeech.html  

   [15]  Definition of Web Feed, http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_feed  

   [16]  Prototype of Mapit-N-trackit, 
         http://rsspresence.googlemashups.com/  

    

Author's Addresses 

   Arjun Roychowdhury 
   Hughes Systique Corp. 
   15245 Shady Grove Rd, Suite 330 
   Rockville MD 20850 
   USA 
       
   Email: arjun@hsc.com 
 

Intellectual Property Statement 

   The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any 
   Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed to 
   pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in 
   this document or the extent to which any license under such rights 
   might or might not be available; nor does it represent that it has 
   made any independent effort to identify any such rights.  Information 
   on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC documents can be 
   found in BCP 78 and BCP 79. 

   Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any 
   assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an 
   attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of 
   such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this 
   specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository at 
   http://www.ietf.org/ipr. 

   The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any 
   copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary 
   rights that may cover technology that may be required to implement 
   this standard.  Please address the information to the IETF at 
   ietf-ipr@ietf.org. 
 
 
Roychowdhury           Expires January 18, 2008               [Page 16] 

Internet-Draft      Motivation for feed for Presence State 
 
    

Disclaimer of Validity 

   This document and the information contained herein are provided on an 
   "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE REPRESENTS 
   OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY, THE IETF TRUST AND 
   THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS 
   OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF 
   THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED 
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 

Copyright Statement 

   Copyright (C) The IETF Trust (2007). 

   This document is subject to the rights, licenses and restrictions 
   contained in BCP 78, and except as set forth therein, the authors 
   retain all their rights. 

Acknowledgment 

   Funding for the RFC Editor function is currently provided by the 
   Internet Society. 

    






















 
 
Roychowdhury           Expires January 18, 2008               [Page 17] 
