INTERNET-DRAFT                                              J. Loughney 
Internet Engineering Task Force                                   Nokia
SIGTRAN Working Group

Issued:  16 June 2000                                    
Expires: 16 December 2000


           IP based Signaling Needs in Radio Access Networks
                 <draft-loughney-sigtran-ip-ran-00.txt>


Status of This Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC 2026. Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas,
and its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute
working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
material or to cite them other than as 'work in progress.'

     The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
     http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

     The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
     http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.




Abstract

In developing IP-based Radio Access Networks, there are needs for
reliable signaling.  It is assumed that SCTP would provide the transport
bearer for any signaling.  This draft presents a general signaling
architecture for IP-based Radio Access Networks.


Internet Draft       IP based Signaling Needs in RANs     June 16, 2000



1.  Introduction.......................................................3
 1.1 Scope ............................................................3
 1.2 Terminology ......................................................3
2 Architectural Framework..............................................4
 2.1 Signaling Transport Architecture .................................4
 2.2 Generalized Point-to-Point Network Architecture ..................4
3 Protocol Needs and Procedures........................................5
 3.1 xUA Functions ....................................................5
 3.2 Addressing .......................................................5
 3.3 Layer 2 Impacts ..................................................6
4 Security.............................................................6
 4.1 Introduction .....................................................6
 4.2 SCTP Security Mechanisms .........................................6
 4.4 Protecting Confidentiality .......................................6
5 Acknowledgements.....................................................6
6 Author's Addresses...................................................6
7 References...........................................................7










































Loughney                                                      [Page 2]


Internet Draft       IP based Signaling Needs in RANs     June 16, 2000


1.  Introduction

As the wireless Internet is developed, there is increasing interaction
between the wireless and cellular world and the Internet.  Traditional
mobile telephony services may deployed with IP technologies such as IP-
Telephony and Mobile IP.  In developing IP-based solutions, radio access
signaling will need to be addressed.

This document presents a protocol architecture to support signaling
within RANs and discusses some issues needed.

1.1 Scope

Radio Access Networks terminate radio bearer information and perform
edge mobility.  Different radio technologies require somewhat different
needs for signaling to and between access nodes (such as base stations)
and between other network elements.  Currently, there are different IP-
based RANs being developed [UTRAN Iur] [CDMA1] [RANAP].  Within the
IETF, there are aspects of IP RANs addressed in several working groups,
such as SigTran, PILC, ROBHC, not to mention Mobile IP.

It is assumed that addressing is done on an IP level and interworking
between legacy networks are not needed.

QoS and routing are currently outside of the scope of this document.

1.2 Terminology

Association - An association refers to an SCTP association.  The
association provides the transport for the delivery of signaling
messages.

Fail-over - The capability to re-route signaling traffic as required to
an server or group servers.

Host - The computing platform that the ASP process is running on.

Signaling Protocol - Application level protocol which handles signaling
messages between Radio Access Network elements, (e.g. - RANAP, RNSAP,
NBAP).

Stream - A stream refers to an SCTP stream; a uni-directional logical
channel established from one SCTP endpoint to another associated SCTP
endpoint, within which all user messages are delivered in-sequence
except for those submitted to the un-ordered delivery service.

Transport address - an address which serves as a source or destination
for the unreliable packet transport service used by SCTP. In IP
networks, a transport address is defined by the combination of an IP
address and an SCTP port number.  Note, only one SCTP port may be
defined for each endpoint, but each SCTP endpoint may have multiple IP
addresses.

1.3 Why SCTP

Stream Control Transmission Protocol is a newly proposed transport
protocol.  It is a reliable datagram transfer protocol operating on top
of IP. It offers the following services:


Loughney                                                      [Page 3]


Internet Draft       IP based Signaling Needs in RANs     June 16, 2000


  -- acknowledged error-free non-duplicated transfer of user data,
  -- data segmentation to conform to discovered path MTU size,
  -- sequenced delivery of user messages within multiple streams,
     with an option for order-of-arrival delivery of individual
     user messages,
  -- optional multiplexing of user messages into SCTP datagrams, and
  -- network-level fault tolerance through supporting of multi-homing
     at either or both ends of an association.
  -- appropriate congestion avoidance behavior.
  -- resistance to flooding and masquerade attacks.

SCTP provides improvements over TCP such as removing head-of-line
blocking within streams and improved support of streams.

These features make SCTP extremely attractive for use within radio
access networks, where timing controls are quite tight.  SCTP also
allows an improved network architecture, supporting multihomed hosts.

2 Architectural Framework

In this architecture, we propose two protocol layers - xUA and SP.  xUA
refers to a generic user adaptation layer which supports a Signaling
Protocol (SP) to be transported over SCTP.  The SP can be thought of as
the application being transported; xUA provides mapping to SCTP; server
level reliability, failover and load sharing; session management; and
address mapping.

2.1 Signaling Transport Architecture


       +------+        +------+
       |  SP  |        |  SP  |
       +------+        +------+
       | xUA  |        | xUA  |
       +------+        +------+
       | SCTP |        | SCTP |
       +------+        +------+
       |  IP  |        |  IP  |
       +------+        +------+
          |                |
          +----------------+

xUA  = User Adaptation layer
SP   = Signaling Protocol

This architecture can be used to carry a signaling protocol in an IP
network.

2.2 Generalized Point-to-Point Network Architecture

Figure 1 shows an example network architecture which can support robust
operation and failover support.  There needs to be some management
resources at the AS to manage traffic.

In this example, the Servers are shown residing within one logical box,
with Server Elements (SE) located inside.  In fact, a Server could be
distributed among several hosts.  In such a scenario, the host should
share state as protection in the case of a failure.  Additionally, in a
distributed system, one SE could be registered to more than one Server.

Loughney                                                      [Page 4]


Internet Draft       IP based Signaling Needs in RANs     June 16, 2000


This draft should not restrict such systems - though such a case in not
specified.


      ***********
      *Server 1 *
      * +-----+ * SCTP Associations
      * |SE 1 +-------------------+
      * +-----+ *                 |                   ***********
      *         *                 |                   *Server 3 *
      * +-----+ *                 |                   * +-----+ *
      * |SE 2 +-----------------------------------------+SE 1 | *
      * +-----+ *                 |                   * +-----+ *
      *         *                 |                   *         *
      * +-----+ *                 |                   * +-----+ *
      * |SE 3 | *            +--------------------------+SE 2 | *
      * +-----+ *            |    |                   * +-----+ *
      ***********            |    |                   ***********
                             |    |
      ***********            |    |                   ***********
      *Server 2 *            |    |                   *Server 4 *
      * +-----+ *            |    |                   * +-----+ *
      * |SE 1 +--------------+    +---------------------+SE 1 | *
      * +-----+ *                                     * +-----+ *
      *         *                                     *         *
      * +-----+ *                                     * +-----+ *
      * |SE 2 +-----------------------------------------+SE 2 | *
      * +-----+ *                                     * +-----+ *
      *         *                                     ***********
      * +-----+ *
      * |SE 3 | *
      * +-----+ *
      *         *
      ***********

          SE = Signaling Element

                   Figure 1: Generalized Architecture


3 Protocol Needs and Procedures

3.1 xUA Functions

The User Adaptation Protocol (xUA), should provide for handling of
primitives from the upper layer signaling protocol to SCTP.  xUA should
have the capability to map user traffic to specific SCTP associations
and streams, as is appropriate.

xUA should provide for process and/or server layer reliability, load
sharing and failover.

3.2 Addressing

It is assumed that all nodes use hostnames / IP addresses for signaling.
For interworking with legacy systems, E.164 addresses may be used with a
DNS-based mapping scheme [ENUM].



Loughney                                                      [Page 5]


Internet Draft       IP based Signaling Needs in RANs     June 16, 2000



3.3 Layer 2 Impacts

To be added.

4 Security

4.1 Introduction

The signaling architecture has the following security objectives:

 * Availability of reliable and timely user data transport.
 * Integrity of user data transport.
 * Confidentiality of user data.

In addition, the network provider may wish to protect its network
topology.

4.2 SCTP Security Mechanisms

SCTP provides certain transport related security features, such as:

 * Blind Denial of Service Attacks
 * Flooding
 * Masquerade
 * Improper Monopolization of Services

It is reasonable to expect that this any network providing signaling
over IP will include an appropriate security policy framework. The "Site
Security Handbook" [2196] should be consulted for guidance.

If the RAN involves more than one party, it may not be reasonable to
expect that all parties have implemented security in a sufficient
manner.  In such a case, it is recommended that IPSEC is used to ensure
confidentiality of user payload.  Consult [2409] for more information on
configuring IPSEC services.

4.3 Address Confidentiality

When using DNS, it is suggested to use DNSSEC for securing and verifying
zones.

4.4 Protecting Confidentiality

Particularly for mobile users, the requirement for confidentiality may
include the masking of IP addresses and ports.  In this case application
level encryption is not sufficient; IPSEC ESP should be used instead.
Regardless of which level performs the encryption, the IPSEC ISAKMP
service should be used for key management.

5 Acknowledgements

The author would like to thank James Kempf, Greg Sidebottom and Tom
Taylor.

6 Author's Addresses

John Loughney
Nokia Research Center

Loughney                                                      [Page 6]


Internet Draft       IP based Signaling Needs in RANs     June 16, 2000


PO Box 407
FIN-00045 Nokia Group
Finland
john.loughney@nokia.com

7 References

[2719]         RFC 2719, "Framework Architecture for Signaling
               Transport"

[RANAP]        3G TS 25.413 V3.0.0 (2000-01) 'Technical Specification
               3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
               Specification Group Radio Access Network; UTRAN Iu
               Interface RANAP Signalling'

[SCTP]         Stream Control Transport Protocol <draft-ietf-sigtran-
               sctp-09.txt>, April 19, 2000, Work in Progress.

[M3UA]         MTP3-User Adaptation Layer <draft-ietf-sigtran-m3ua-
               02.txt>, March 2000, Work in Progress.

[2401]         RFC 2401, "Security Architecture for the Internet
               Protocol", S. Kent, R. Atkinson, November 1998.

[UTRAN IUR]    3G TS 25.420 V3.0.0 (2000-01) "Technical Specification
               3rd Generation Partnership Project; Technical
               Specification Group Radio Access Network; UTRAN Iur
               Interface General Aspects and Principles"

[2196]         RFC 2196, "Site Security Handbook", B. Fraser Ed.,
               September 1997.

[ENUM]         "ENUM Requirements" <draft-ietf-enum-rqmts-01.txt>, June
               2000, Work in Progress.

[E.164-DNS]    "E.164 number and DNS" , <draft-ietf-e164-dns-00.txt>,
               April 25, 2000, Work in Progress.



Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2000).  All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above           
                        copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works. However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English. The limited permissions granted above are
perpetual and will not be
                          revoked by the Internet Society or its
successors or assigns. This document and the information contained
herein is provided on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE
INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE

Loughney                                                      [Page 7]


Internet Draft       IP based Signaling Needs in RANs     June 16, 2000


INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."


























































Loughney                                                      [Page 8]

