





Network Working Group                                        Ping Pan
Internet Draft                                   (Hammerhead Systems)
Expiration Date: December 2005                              July 2005



                         Pseudo Wire Protection


                    draft-pan-pwe3-protection-01.txt


Status of this Memo

By submitting this Internet-Draft, each author represents that any
applicable patent or other IPR claims of which he or she is aware have
been or will be disclosed, and any of which he or she becomes aware will
be disclosed, in accordance with Section 6 of BCP 79.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.


Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2005).  This document is subject to
the rights, licenses and restrictions contained in BCP 78 and except as
set forth therein, the authors retain all their rights.


Abstract

This document describes a mechanism that helps to protect and recover
user traffic when carried over pseudo-wires. The mechanism requires some
minor modification to the existing pseudo-wire setup procedure, and is



Pan                                                             [Page 1]





Internet Draft      draft-pan-pwe3-protection-01.txt           July 2005


fully backward compatible.

Essentially, the mechanism is to enable the network operators to setup
multiple primary and backup pseudo-wires, and only use one to carry the
data traffic itself. Upon network failure, user traffic can be switched
over to the next ôbestö pseudo-wire base on preference levels.

This document first describes the motivation of the work base on the
discussions with a number of carriers. Then we define the protocol
extension itself.



1. Specification of Requirements

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119.



2. Introduction

   Pseudo-wires have been deployed by a number of carriers to carry
   customer layer-2 data flows. Each Layer-2 flow (or Attachment
   Circuit) is mapped to a pseudo-wire. Pseudo-wire setup, maintenance
   and packet encapsulation have been extensively described in a number
   of IETF PWE3 drafts [PWE3-CTRL, PWE3-TRANSPORT]. Recently, several
   carriers have argued that, when offered as a service, pseudo-wires
   need to possess the same capabilities that have been deployed in
   transport networks for many years, namely, QoS guarantees, OAM, and
   P/R (protection and restoration).

   In this draft, we extend LDP pseudo-wire proposal [PWE3-CTRL] to
   support protection and restoration operation.

   Why is such work necessary?

   When it comes to traffic protection, carriers always have a rich set
   of tools to deal with network failures: fast-reroute [MPLS-FRR] and
   primary/secondary standby for MPLS, APS and UPSR for SONET/SDH, and
   Link Aggregation for transport Ethernet. The general concept has been
   that user traffic needs to be protected at every segment and every
   layer of the network.

   The need for pseudo-wire protection and restoration arises in a
   number of deployment scenarios:




Pan                                                             [Page 2]





Internet Draft      draft-pan-pwe3-protection-01.txt           July 2005



             +-----+      Tunnel-1       +-----+
       AC's  |     |====== OC-48 ========|     |  AC's
     <------>| PE1 |                     | PE2 |<------>
             }     |      Tunnel-2       |     |
             |     |======= OC-3 ========|     |
             +-----+                     +-----+

                    Figure-1: Bandwidth Mismatch


   In Figure-1, there exist two parallel tunnels between two PE's. They
   have different link capacity. Hence, whenever the bandwidth on a
   protecting link is smaller than that on the working link, we may run
   into trouble during protection and restoration.

   In the example, let's assume that both tunnels are MPLS LSP's.
   Network operators have enabled MPLS fast-reroute to enable both LSPÆs
   protecting each other. From the PE's, a number of AC's are aggregated
   into the LSPÆs as pseudo-wires. Some AC's carry mission-critical
   data, while others transport best-effort data only. If Tunnel-1
   fails, all traffic on Tunnel-1 will be switched into Tunnel-2.
   However, since both tunnels have different bandwidth, mission-
   critical traffic could be dropped as the result of link congestion
   during switch-over.

   This problem can be easily resolved if each pseudo-wire has its own
   preference, which allows the pseudo-wires to preempt each other when
   necessary. Also note that, since the pseudo-wires are always bi-
   directional, the preference assignment must be consistent on both
   ends the pseudo-wires.


            +-----+                  +----+
      AC's  |     |====== GigE ======|    |  AC's or PW's
    <------>| CPE |                  | PE |<-------------->
            |     |====== DS3 =======|    |
            +-----+                  +----+

                   Figure-2: Network Access

   Figure-2 illustrates another deployment scenario where pseudo-wire
   protection may become critical.

   Pseudo-wire is becoming important for multi-protocol multi-service
   data access. One reason is that pseudo-wire enables data aggregation,
   which in turn improves bandwidth utilization. In a typical metro
   network access location (Hub or CO), the statistical multiplexing



Pan                                                             [Page 3]





Internet Draft      draft-pan-pwe3-protection-01.txt           July 2005


   gain is approximately 3-4 [ATT-REPORT]. So the early data gets
   aggregated, better bandwidth utilization for the carriers û
   especially at the access locations where bandwidth is still precious.

   More importantly, pseudo-wire provides a simple and uniform data
   transport layer, where all layer-2 packets can be processed uniformly
   at PE's. When designed properly, using pseudo-wire for data access
   enables the carriers to bypass Layer-2 specific management interface,
   which simplifies network operation.

   However, given the size of the carrier networks, the pseudo-wire
   access strategy has to depend on the cost of access devices or CPE's.
   To maintain a low cost, the access devices may not be routers, and
   use IP routing and MPLS signaling for traffic protection and
   recovery. As shown in Figure-2, the access device (CPE) will run
   target LDP to exchange pseudo-wire labels with the PE. In this case,
   a preferred protection method is to conduct traffic protection at
   pseudo-wire level.

   Finally, the network operators need to have the ability to support
   planned traffic shifting. In Figure-1, there are two links between
   two PE's carrying a number of pseudo-wires. During network
   maintenance, carriers may decide to shift all traffic from a set of
   pseudo-wires from one link to another one temporally without causing
   traffic disturbance to users. To support this operation, pseudo-wire
   protection can be manually triggered from the operators [NOTE1].



3. Design Considerations


3.1. Protection Schemes

   There are three basic types of point-to-point protection: 1+1, 1:1
   and 1:N.

   1+1 is to transmit same traffic over two parallel links. The receiver
   will only pick traffic from one link at any given time. In event of
   failure, at least one of the links still carries the actual traffic.
   However, in packet networks, this may not be the best way to consume
   link bandwidth.

   1:1 protection is to use one connection to protect another
   connection. The most popular 1:1 protection is SONET APS. 1:N is a
   generalized version of 1:1. In 1:N, one connection is established to
   protection multiple other connections. MPLS Facility Backup is one
   such example.



Pan                                                             [Page 4]





Internet Draft      draft-pan-pwe3-protection-01.txt           July 2005


   In pseudo-wire protection, each AC may have its own layer-2
   characteristics that need to be maintained separately. When applying
   1:N protection to these AC's, it would seem odd, for example, to
   setup one backup pseudo-wire to protect both a best-effort Ethernet
   VLAN connection and an ATM SPVC with CBR and VBR traffic requirements
   at the same time.

   On the other hand, if the pseudo-wires have strict bandwidth
   requirements, and the network needs to conserve network resources,
   the 1:N approach would be more optimal.

   In our design, we shall consider both 1:1 and 1:N schemes. But we
   will only define the operation sequence and protocol extension for
   1:1 initially.


3.2. Protection Types

   Pseudo-wire protection will support the following types: cold, warm
   and hot standby.


3.2.1. Cold Standby

   The edge nodes will only negotiate and establish secondary (or
   backup) pseudo-wires after network failure. The nodes on cold standby
   need to have more than one LDP Hello adjacencies, where one of them
   can be used to carry data traffic after network failure.

   This type of protection can be fully supported with the existing
   specification [PW-CTRL]. The protection effectiveness depends on how
   fast two edge nodes can react to network failure and process control
   messages after the failure.


3.2.2. Warm Standby

   The edge nodes will negotiate backup pseudo-wires and exchange labels
   prior to any network failure. However, data forwarding path will not
   be programmed for label processing and QoS enforcement until after
   the detection of network failures.

   Such practice and requirement come from traditional transport
   carriers. In SONET/SDH networks, switches reserve the protection time
   slots ahead of time. Upon the detection of network failure, the nodes
   "wake-up" the protection connections.





Pan                                                             [Page 5]





Internet Draft      draft-pan-pwe3-protection-01.txt           July 2005


3.2.3. Hot Standby

   This is the most efficient protection method.  The protecting
   pseudo-wires are established before any network failure. This is also
   known as "make-before-break". Upon the detection of network failure,
   the edge nodes will switch data traffic into pre-established backup
   pseudo-wires directly. The protection efficiency is therefore
   depending on the speed for switch-over, which is in the order of
   milliseconds.



3.3. Link, Node and Path Protection

   In today's deployment, pseudo-wire setup and management involve only
   two edge nodes. The recent multi-hop pseudo-wire [MH-PWE3] has
   introduced the concept of pseudo-wire stitching, where each edge-to-
   edge pseudo-wire may consist of multiple segments. In addition to two
   edge nodes, one or multiple transit pseudo-wire nodes are involved in
   switching pseudo-wires between networks.

   Pseudo-wire protection thus needs to consider the following:

   (1) How to protect each pseudo-wire segment?

   (2) How to protect traffic in case of pseudo-wire switching point
   failure?

   (3) How to protect the entire edge-to-edge pseudo-wires?

   The first issue can be taken care of by treating each segment as an
   individual single-hop pseudo-wire, and create backup pseudo-wires to
   protect it.

   The second issue is similar to the requirement in MPLS fast-reroute
   node-protection. In case of node failure, the pseudo-wire switching
   points need to relay the failure information toward the edge nodes to
   trigger traffic switch-over.

   Since multi-hop pseudo-wire design is still under way, we will
   propose the solutions for the second and the third issues.










Pan                                                             [Page 6]





Internet Draft      draft-pan-pwe3-protection-01.txt           July 2005


3.4. Backup Pseudo-wire Scaling

   Another consideration is the number of backups a pseudo-wire may
   have. This is a network design and deployment issue. Any protocol
   extension and implantation should not pose any constraint in this
   area.



4. LDP Extension

   PW protection is based on [PW-CTRL] and [LDP]. PW label binding uses
   targeted LDP, where two edge nodes first establish an LDP session
   using the Extended Discovery mechanism described in [LDP].

   PW's are initiated via LDP Label Mapping messages. Each message
   contains a FEC TLV, a Label TLV, and some optional TLVs. The PW TLV
   can be either PWId FEC or Generalized ID FEC. In case of Generalized
   ID FEC, the mapping message will also include an Interface Parameters
   TLV, as described in [PW-CTRL].

   PW protection operates under the assumption that there exists more
   than one link between a pair of PE's to transport data traffic, as
   shown in Figure-3. Each PE maintains multiple LDP Hello adjacencies,
   one for each link.


         +-------+                 +---------+
     AC  |       |   Primary PW    |         |  AC
    ---- +-+--+--O=======L0========O--+---+-------
         | |  |  |                 |  |   |  |
         | |  |  |   Backup PW-1   |  |   |  |
         | |  +--O=======L1========O--+   |  |
         | |     |                 |      |  |
         | |    ...               ...     |  |
         | |     |                 |      |  |
         | |     |   Backup PW-N   |      |  |
         | +-----O=======LN========O------+  |
         |       |                 |         |
         +-------+                 +---------+
            PE1                       PE2

            Figure-3: PW Protection Example


   For each primary (or working) PW, the PE's can setup one or multiple
   backup (protecting) PW's. The procedure on setting up the primary and
   backup PW's is the same as the one for regular PW's. The only



Pan                                                             [Page 7]





Internet Draft      draft-pan-pwe3-protection-01.txt           July 2005


   difference is that during PW initiation, a Protection TLV will be
   included in the mapping messages. The new TLV describes the
   preference levels for each PW.

   The Label Mapping messages will be sent over multiple Hello
   adjacencies between two PE's. All primary and backup PW's share the
   same attachment circuit information. The PE's will only transmit data
   traffic over the PW that has the highest preference level. During
   network failure, the PE's will switch-over traffic into the PW that
   has the next highest preference level. After network recovery, the
   PE's will revert back to the previous PW.



4.1. The PROTECTION TLV


     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |1|0| Protection tlv (???)      |        Length                 |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |Setup Pref Lvl | Hold Perf Lvl |Protection Type|     Scheme    |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+


       - U bit (always set)

        The two edge nodes may not support the protection feature
        at the same time. On the node that does not support the
        PROTECTION TLV, only one pseudo-wire will be established.
        In case of network failure, no fast switch-over will be
        available.

      - Protection tlv

        The value of the new tlv type needs to be allocated by IANA.

      - Setup Preference Level

        The preference level with respect to initiate a PW. The
        value of 0 is the highest. The Setup Preference Level is
        used in deciding whether this PW can preempt another PW.

      - Holding Preference Level

        The preference level with respect to maintain a PW. The
        value of 0 is the highest. The Holding Preference Level



Pan                                                             [Page 8]





Internet Draft      draft-pan-pwe3-protection-01.txt           July 2005


        is used in deciding whether this PW can be preempted
        by another PW.

      - Protection Type

        Currently we have defined the following values:

             Hot Standby: 0
             Warm Standby: 1

        The default value is 0 (Hot Standby).

      - Scheme

        Currently, this can be one of the following:

             1:1 protection: 0
             1:N protection: 1

        The default value is 0 (1:1 protection)

   Using the Protection TLV, the operator can configure the protection
   mechanism that they prefer. Since the pseudo-wires are always
   bidirectional, exchanging protection information between two edge
   nodes will help to achieve a consistent protection behavior for each
   pseudo-wire.



4.2. Signaling Procedures

   PW protection is an extension to the PW control and maintenance draft
   [PW-CTRL]. Essentially, the mechanism is to enable the network
   operators to setup multiple primary and backup pseudo-wires, and only
   use one to carry the data traffic itself. Upon network failure, user
   traffic can be switched over to the next ôbestö pseudo-wire base on
   preference levels.

   When there is more than one LDP Hello adjacency between a pair of
   PE's, the operators can always configure backup pseudo-wires for data
   protection purposes. As illustrated in Figure-3, to begin the setup
   from PE1, the operators first initiate the Primary PW over adjacency
   L0, and then initiate the Backup PW-1 over adjacency L1 by sending
   Label Mapping messages.

   The Label Mapping messages for both PW's must have the same PW FEC
   (PWid or Generalized ID) and the same AC interface information. They
   must have different Label and Protection TLV. The Label TLV contains



Pan                                                             [Page 9]





Internet Draft      draft-pan-pwe3-protection-01.txt           July 2005


   the label value to carry the actual data traffic over each PW. Each
   PW has different preference values in the Protection TLV.

   When PE2 receives a Label Mapping message, it will perform the
   following checks:

   If PE2 does not support the Protection TLV, it will ignore the TLV
   and precede the regular PW setup. PE2 can only setup one PW with PE1
   per AC. PE2 will reply a Label Release Message to reject the extra
   PW's from PE1. PE2 should however notify PE1 by signaling the
   "Unknown TLV" status code.

   If PE2 supports the Protection TLV, it will process the rest of the
   mapping message. PE2 needs to check if it already has the PW's with
   the same attachment ID (PWid or the combination of AGI, SAII and
   TAII) in its database.

   On each PE, all PW's with the same attachment ID must have different
   preference level. In this case, PE2 will always reject the mapping
   message with the same preference level by replying a Label Release
   message. PE2 should notify PE1 with a "Duplicated Preference" status
   code.

   PE's cannot maintain more than one PW with the same attachment ID
   over an LDP adjacency. However, it is possible that the operators
   decide to adjust the preference levels or style for maintenance
   purposes. As a result, PE2 may receive multiple Label Mapping
   messages with the same attachment ID from a particular adjacency. In
   this case, PE2 will overwrite the existing protection information
   with the new one.

   If PE2 decides to accept the Label Mapping message, then it has to
   make sure that a LSP is setup in the opposite direction (PE1->PE2).
   If no corresponding tunnel, it must initiate it by sending a Label
   Mapping message to PE1. Other than reversing the SAI and TAI in PW
   FEC, PE2 must send the same Protection TLV back to PE1.


4.3. Consistent Protection Behavior

   PW's are bidirectional. Each PW must have the same protection
   behavior at both ends. Otherwise, a user traffic flow may have a
   hot-standby that can switch-over within 50 milliseconds on one
   direction, but slow to recover on the other direction.

   If the PW is initiated from one end (PE1), the other end (PE2) must
   comply by replying a Label Mapping message with the same Protection
   TLV. However, it is possible that the operators are to setup a PW



Pan                                                            [Page 10]





Internet Draft      draft-pan-pwe3-protection-01.txt           July 2005


   from both ends (PE1 and PE2) manually. In this case, if the
   protection parameters are inconsistent, the PE's need to reject the
   PW setup, and notify the operators with a "Mismatched Preference"
   status code.



4.4. Preference Levels

   All PW's are not created equal. Some will have higher preference
   level than the others. In case of network failure, the PE's will
   first protect the PW's with a higher preference.

   Some PW's may have network resource (such as, bandwidth) association.
   The PE's will reject some of the backup PW's during the setup, when
   there is not enough resource available on a backup link. PE's will
   notify the operators with an "Out of Backup Resource" status code.


5. Protecting Multi-Segment Pseudo Wires

   [Segmented-PW] describes the cases where pseudo-wires can be stitched
   at intermediate nodes. The proposed mechanism can be used to protect
   each segmented pseudo-wire, assuming LDP is the signaling protocol.

   [MHOP-PW] describes a method to establish pseudo-wires over multiple
   intermediate networks. At the edge of each network, the pseudo-wires
   will be processed and extended toward the ultimate destination. The
   proposed mechanism can be used to protect this type of multi-hop
   pseudo-wire, where each intermediate hop will use the defined TLV for
   per-segment protection.



6. Security Considerations

   This document specifies the LDP extensions that are needed for
   protecting pseudo-wires. It will have the same security properties as
   in [LDP] and [PW-CTRL].












Pan                                                            [Page 11]





Internet Draft      draft-pan-pwe3-protection-01.txt           July 2005


7. IANA Considerations

   We have defined the following protocol extension:


7.1. PW Protection TLV

   This is a new LDP TLV type.


7.2. PW Status Code

   The edge nodes need to information each other in a number of error
   conditions. Several PW status code need to be defined:

       0x00000XYZ "Duplicated preference levels"
       0x00000XYZ "Mismatched Preference"
       0x00000XYZ "Out of Backup Resource"



8. Acknowledgement

   We are grateful on the opportunities of discussing this idea with
   various people in the past several months.



9. Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2004).  This document is subject
   to the rights, licenses and restrictions contained in BCP 78, and
   except as set forth therein, the authors retain all their rights.

   This document and the information contained herein are provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE REPRESENTS
   OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET
   ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
   INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
   INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.










Pan                                                            [Page 12]





Internet Draft      draft-pan-pwe3-protection-01.txt           July 2005


10. Intellectual Property Statement

   The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
   Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed to
   pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in
   this document or the extent to which any license under such rights
   might or might not be available; nor does it represent that it has
   made any independent effort to identify any such rights.  Information
   on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC documents can be
   found in BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any
   assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an
   attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of
   such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this
   specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository at
   http://www.ietf.org/ipr.

   The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
   copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary
   rights that may cover technology that may be required to implement
   this standard.  Please address the information to the IETF at ietf-
   ipr@ietf.org.

   By submitting this Internet-Draft, I certify that any applicable
   patent or other IPR claims of which I am aware have been disclosed,
   or will be disclosed, and any of which I become aware will be
   disclosed, in accordance with RFC 3668.



11. Disclaimer of Validity

   This document and the information contained herein are provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE REPRESENTS
   OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET
   ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
   INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
   INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.











Pan                                                            [Page 13]





Internet Draft      draft-pan-pwe3-protection-01.txt           July 2005


12. Normative Reference

   [MH-PWE3] L. Martini, et al, "Requirements for inter domain Pseudo-
   Wires", draft-martini-pwe3-MH-PW-requirements-00.txt

   [PW-CTRL] L. Martini, et al, "Pseudowire Setup and Maintenance using
   LDP", draft-ietf-pwe3-control-protocol-14.txt

   [PWE3-TRANSPORT] L. Martini, et al, "Transport of Layer 2 Frames Over
   MPLS", draft-martini-l2circuit-trans-mpls-14.txt

   [LDP] L. Andersson, et al, "LDP Specification", draft-ietf-mpls-
   rfc3036bis-00.txt

   [MPLS-FRR] P. Pan, et al, "Fast Reroute Extensions to RSVP-TE for LSP
   Tunnels", draft-ietf-mpls-rsvp-lsp-fastreroute-07.txt

   [DRY-MARTINI] P. Pan, ôDry-Martini: Supporting PWE3 over Sub-IP
   Access Networksö, draft-pan-pwe3-over-sub-ip-01.txt, July 2005

   [ATT-REPORT] T. Afferton, et al, "Packet Aware Transport for Metro
   Networks", IEEE Network Magazine, April 2004.

   [NOTE1] Other mechanism may also be applicable for planned shutdown.
   See ôLDP graceful restart for planned outages (draft-minei-mpls-ldp-
   planned-restart-01.txt)ö by Ina Minei, et al.

   [Segmented-PW] Martini et.al. " Segmented Pseudo Wire", draft-ietf-
   pwe3-segmented-pw-00.txt, July 2005

   [MHOP-PW] Florin Balus et. Al. ôMulti-Segment Pseudowire Setup and
   Maintenance using LDPö, draft-balus-mh-pw-control-protocol-02.txt,
   July 2005



13. Informative References

    None












Pan                                                            [Page 14]





Internet Draft      draft-pan-pwe3-protection-01.txt           July 2005


14. Author Information


   Ping Pan
   Hammerhead Systems
   640 Clyde Court
   Mountain View, CA 94043
   e-mail: ppan@hammerheadsystems.com











































Pan                                                            [Page 15]


