
INTERNET DRAFT				          Richard Shockey 
February 15, 1999			         Shockey Consulting LLC
Expires August 15, 1999
draft-shockey-ipp2ifax-goals-00.txt


Goals and Requirements for the use of the Internet Print 
Protocol [IPP] as a Facsimile Service



STATUS OF THIS MEMO

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full 
conformance with all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet 
Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working 
groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working 
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of 
six months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by 
other documents at any time.  It is inappropriate to use 
Internet-Drafts as reference material or to cite them other 
than as "work in progress."

To view the list Internet-Draft Shadow Directories, see     
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

A discussion list is available on topics related to this 
draft.

To subscribe to the mailing list, send a message to 
majordomo@pwg.org with the line "ifx subscribe 
yourname@address.com" in the body of the message. 
The subject line should be left blank. 
    
Archives are available from http://www.pwg.org/hypermail/ifx 

ABSTRACT

This document discusses the use of the Internet Print 
Protocol [IPP] as a Facsimile Service on the Internet. 

A variety of goals and requirements are outlined to 
facilitate the use of IPP in compliance with the legal as 
well as general custom and practice surrounding General 
Switched Telephone Network Facsimile Services [FAX].





SHOCKEY              EXPIRES AUGUST 1999          [PAGE 1]


INTERNET DRAFT       IPP2IFAX GOALS		February 15, 1999


1.0 INTRODUCTION

Facsimile [FAX] has a long and successful tradition as a 
telephony application for sending and printing a document 
from one device to another. 

The Internet Print Protocol has developed within the IETF as 
an application level protocol that can be used for 
distributed printing over the Internet using HTTP as the 
transport protocol. [IPP-RAT]

As document distribution technologies IPP and FAX share a 
number of common elements including:

A. Document Creation
B. Addressing for the Delivery of Documents
C. Capabilities Negotiation between Sender and Recipient
D. Receipt and Confirmation of Transactions
E. Security 

At a sufficient level of abstraction, the concept of FAX 
could be considered a "remote printing" technology. 
Therefore, a comparison of IPP to other facsimile services 
is useful.

1.1 DEFINITION OF TERMS

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", 
"SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", 
and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as 
described in [RFC2119].

Facsimile Service Mode shall be defined as the Internet 
Print Protocol transmission of non-alterable documents 
across Internet domains or the use of IPP to gateway to 
other Internet Fax or GSTN Facsimile Services.

Throughout this document "PDL" shall refer to the IPP Page 
Description Language Content-Types defined in [IPP-MOD] 

IPP introduces objects described as "Job" and "Printer" to 
describe functions normally associated with printing.

The concept of an IPP "Job" encapsulates transaction 
requests and responses that create and deliver a document to 
a "Printer". The actual nature of the IPP "Printer" could be 
a device capable of creating impressions on paper, but it is 
not a requirement.



SHOCKEY              EXPIRES AUGUST 1999          [PAGE 2]


INTERNET DRAFT       IPP2IFAX GOALS		February 15, 1999



2.0 OVERVIEW OF EXISTING FACSIMILIE SERVICES

2.1 TRADITIONAL FAX

Traditional facsimile as defined by the ITU [T.30] is a 
connection oriented technology between two terminal devices 
over the GSTN (Global Switched Telephone Network). It is 
specifically a "point to point" service where the end point 
is identified by an ITU [E.164] telephone number. The 
content types specified by T.30 are highly restricted due to 
the lack of bandwidth on the analog GSTN, typically limited 
to 14.4Kpbs, but standards do exist to support up to 
28.8Kpbs.

2.2 IETF FAX SERVICE

The Internet Fax service [IFAX][RFC2301-RFC2306 inclusive] 
has developed within the IETF using SMTP. With SMTP there 
are two functional elements, a Message Transfer Agent (MTA) 
and a Message User Agent (MUA). The MTA's and MUA's are 
operating in a Client-Server / Store and Forward mode.

IFAX adds additional functionality by integrating with other 
SMTP services, such as the Voice Profile for Internet Mail 
[VPIM2], in a concept often referred to as "Universal 
Messaging". 

2.3 ITU FAX

The ITU-T (International Telecommunications Union) has taken 
two approaches to defining an Internet Fax service. 

2.3.1 ITU STORE-AND-FORWARD FAX

In the first instance, it has designated the body of IETF 
IFAX work, [RFC2301-RFC2306 inclusive] and defined it as 
[T.37]. 

2.3.2 ITU REALTIME FAX

The ITU has also defined a "real time" Internet fax 
standard, now documented as [T.38].  T.38 tunnels under 
[H.323] to establish capabilities exchange and reporting, 
then uses RTP (Real Time Protocol) to deliver the content 
payload.  

No addressing scheme is defined for T.38. The standard 
describes only a transport protocol.


SHOCKEY              EXPIRES AUGUST 1999          [PAGE 3]


INTERNET DRAFT       IPP2IFAX GOALS		February 15, 1999


3.0 END USER REQUIREMENTS FOR A FACSIMILIE SERVICE

3.1 IETF-FAX GOALS

The document "Terminology and Goals for Internet Fax" 
[GOALS] describes the general system functional requirements 
for a facsimile service. 

To Quote directly from GOALS:

{Begin Quote}

Traditional facsimile has a simple user operational model; 
the user

  	1) inserts paper into a device
  	2) dials a number corresponding to the destination
  	3) presses the 'start' button on the device 
  	4) the sending device connects to the receiving device 
using the telephone network
5) the sending device scans the paper and transmits the 
image of the paper
  	6) simultaneously, the remote device receives the 
transmission and prints the image on paper
  	7) upon completion of transmission and successful 
processing by the recipient, the sending user is notified of 
success

Although not usually visible to the user, the operation (5) 
of transmission consists of

 	5a) negotiation: the capabilities of the sender and 
recipient are exchanged, and suitable mutually acceptable 
parameters for the communication are selected
 	5b) scanning: creating digitized images of pages of a 
document
 	5c) compression: the image data is encoded using a 
data compression method
 	5d) transmission: the data is sent from one terminal 
to the other
 
In addition, the termination of operations (5d) and (6) may 
be characterized as consisting of:

 	6a) completed delivery: the message has completed 
transmission 
 	6b) completed receipt:  the message has been accepted 
by the recipient processed

{End Quote}

SHOCKEY              EXPIRES AUGUST 1999          [PAGE 4]


INTERNET DRAFT       IPP2IFAX GOALS		February 15, 1999


3.2 OTHER GOALS OF A FACSIMILE SERVICE

In addition to the above specifications there are additional 
requirements for Sender/Recipient Identification Exchange, 
time/date stamping, and sender identification requirements 
such as page marking currently required by law in the United 
States and several other countries (see LEGAL ISSUES). 

3.2.1 CONFIRMATION REQUIREMENTS FOR A FACSIMILIE SERVICE

Detailed progress reports and transaction logs have become 
standard end user requirements for a facsimile service in 
order to document the receipt and confirmation of facsimile 
delivery.

Any facsimile service report or log:

1. MUST note status (SUCCESS, FAILURE, CAUSE OF FAILURE)
2. MUST note date and time of all attempts (log files 
recorded at each end by client and server locally)
3. MAY note duration of transaction 
4. MAY note number of pages transferred
5. SHOULD mutually exchange and document the identity of 
both sender and recipient.

4.0 REQUIREMENTS FOR THE USE OF IPP AS A FACSIMILIE SERVICE 

IPP clients and server operating in a facsimile service mode 
MUST comply with all IPP protocol requirements specified in 
[IPP-MOD] [IPP-PRO] [IPP-REQ] and [IPP-SCHEME]. In addition 
IPP implementation recommendations are contained in separate 
document [IPP-IMPLEMENTER].

4.1 REQUIREMENTS FOR DATA FORMAT SUPPORT  

IPP and FAX/IFAX take two fundamentally different approaches 
to the content payload of a message. FAX limits its content 
to the image files specified by the [T.30] protocol. IFAX 
limits its Content-Type to a highly defined set of TIFF 
images specified in RFC 2301 and specifically limits 
Content-Type to a subset of TIFF [Profile S] in the event 
that the capabilities of the recipient are not known in 
advance.

The rationale for this has been that TIFF has historically 
been used in the GSTN-FAX and that by defining a similar 
type of content for IFAX, the goal of service 
interoperability is advanced.



SHOCKEY              EXPIRES AUGUST 1999          [PAGE 5]


INTERNET DRAFT       IPP2IFAX GOALS		February 15, 1999


IPP does not specify any specific form of PDL for use by IPP 
Printer Objects. This is negotiated between IPP clients and 
servers during an IPP Job transaction. 

In order to facilitate interoperability between IPP and 
other facsimile services, all IPP clients and servers SHOULD 
support file formats for Internet Fax specified by RFC2301 
to be defined in IPP as IANA registered "mimeMediaTypes". 
IPP transactions that gateway to other services MUST support 
the creation or acceptance of the minimum file format 
recommendation of RFC2301 known as Profile S.

4.2 REQUIREMENTS FOR ADDRESSING

Both IPP and IFAX use commonly understood addressing schemes 
well known among Internet users.

IFAX uses e-mail addressing.

IPP uses Universal Resource Locators as specified by the 
[IPP-SCHEME].

IPP has the ability to allow multiple URL's to access a 
single IPP Output resource such as:

ipp://domain.com/daffy_duck
ipp://domain.com/canada_goose
ipp://domain.com/color_printer

These separate addresses might output to a single printer in 
much the same way a single FAX number is available to 
several individuals. 

In order for IPP to interoperate with other facsimile 
services and gateway between them it will be necessary to 
develop new IPP Job Template attributes that will permit IPP 
clients the ability to pass [E.164] FAX numbers, e-mail 
addresses, e-mail notification requirements, e-mail security 
or encryption requirements to IPP servers.

4.3 REQUIREMENTS FOR CAPABILITIES EXCHANGE

FAX devices negotiate and exchange capabilities during the 
call setup of T.30. Information is passed between devices 
through the use of highly defined "frames" of data. Such 
data exchange includes such attributes as page size, 
resolution, speed of transmission and identity of terminal 
devices (T.30-CSID).
	


SHOCKEY              EXPIRES AUGUST 1999          [PAGE 6]


INTERNET DRAFT       IPP2IFAX GOALS		February 15, 1999


IPP has a reliable methodology for the exchange of  
Capabilities between IPP client and server. For example an 
IPP client could request the capabilities of the server 
through the IPP query "get-printer-attributes" which would 
return "operations-supported" values to the client that 
would include the supported PDL's and specific PDL 
attributes.

IPP Protocols for reliable negotiation and download of 
unavailable PDL drivers in IPP are currently out of scope 
for IPP , but it is assumed that subsequent versions of IPP 
will address this problem.

Work is underway within the IETF to document such 
capabilities in a format that may be useful to IPP [CONNEG-
FEATURE-SYNTAX] [FAX-SCHEMA]

Implementations of IPP capability exchange in a facsimile 
service mode may vary. Many IPP clients may not be able to 
support the creation of RFC2301 or GSTN fax file formats but 
IPP servers may have the capability of converting a variety 
of PDL's to such formats before forwarding to another 
facsimile service.

If the IPP client operating in a facsimile service mode is 
unable to send a RFC2301 or appropriate GSTN fax file format 
but wishes to gateway to another facsimile service then the 
IPP server MUST be able to convert the PDL to the 
appropriate file required by the facsimile service. 

4.4 REQUIREMENTS FOR IDENTITY EXCHANGE

The identity of senders and recipients in traditional FAX 
are achieved through the legal requirements for fax (see 
LEGAL ISSUES) and the exchange of T.30 CSID frames between 
terminal devices.

IFAX uses e-mail header information to identify the sender 
to the recipient. The recipient has no requirement to 
exchange identification data.

Though not a specific legal requirement, it is RECOMENDED 
that IPP Job Attribute extensions for the transmission and 
exchange of Advanced Sender Identification be developed, 
such as a [VCARD], when operating in a facsimile service 
mode.

4.5 REQUIERMENTS FOR RECIEPT, TRACKING AND CONFIRMATION



SHOCKEY              EXPIRES AUGUST 1999          [PAGE 7]


INTERNET DRAFT       IPP2IFAX GOALS		February 15, 1999


Traditional FAX uses In-Band monitoring to signal the sender 
when a document transmission has completed or report on any 
errors encountered.

Advanced IFAX service proposals [EIFAX] have recommended the 
use of [DSN] and [MDN] for receipt and confirmation.

IPP offers a comprehensive suite of options for monitoring 
the success or failure of a document submission or Job. IPP 
clients can listen for a response to the HTTP POST from an 
IPP Printer object or may poll the IPP Printer Object for 
Job Status information at any time during processing.

The IPP work group is proceeding on a more advanced suite of 
Notification Attributes [IPP-NOT] to permit notification on 
either the success or failure of any IPP job submitted.

4.6 REQUIREMENTS FOR IPP TRANSACTION TIME/DATE INFORMATION

Closely associated with the need for transaction receipt and 
notification is the legal requirement [see LEGAL ISSUES] 
that at least the first page of a facsimile contain the time 
and date of transmission and that information be included in 
any facsimile service log or record.

FAX terminal devices all have internal clock devices for 
recording the time/date of transactions. Actual time 
information is not exchanged "on the wire". Each device 
notes when it sends and receives documents and logs those 
transactions appropriately.

All IFAX transactions note time/date information in the e-
mail header information.

IPP clients and servers in a facsimile service mode MUST 
implement clocks in their systems or consider the use of the 
Time Protocol or Daytime Protocol [RFC 867/868] to implement 
time/date transaction logging.

Examples of IPP transaction information that may be useful 
to record include:

time of transmission as claimed by sender
time of reception by IPP server  
IPP Printer Attribute "time-at-creation"
time print job was commenced by IPP printer
	IPP Printer Attribute "time-at-processing"
time print job completed by IPP printer
	IPP Printer Attribute "time-at-completion"


SHOCKEY              EXPIRES AUGUST 1999          [PAGE 8]


INTERNET DRAFT       IPP2IFAX GOALS		February 15, 1999


4.7 GOALS FOR SECURITY

On the surface, it would seem that no one would want to make 
his or her printer available on the Internet. 

It should be noted, however, that we have globally 
accessible printers available now. They are just called fax 
machines. 

IPP offers several types of security to enable transaction 
authorization [RFC2069 - Digest Authorization] or 
transaction encryption [RFC2246 - Transport Layer Security]


5.0 GATEWAY CONCEPTS FOR IPP 

IPP can be used to gateway to other facsimile services.
 
IPP will need to develop a variety of new status codes to 
indicate how IPP servers interoperate with these services.

Gateways between messaging services consist of On-Ramps, 
which accept transactions and Off-Ramps, which deliver the 
transaction to its ultimate destination.

5.1 IPP TO GSTN FAX

IPP servers may accept transactions ultimately bound for a 
GSTN FAX machine if appropriate IPP attributes are developed 
to pass E.164 destination information along with the PDL.

IPP servers should be able to monitor the T.30 Off-Ramp 
transaction in real time and be able to offer the senders 
IPP client accurate transaction reports when polled.

5.2 IPP TO IFAX

Should IPP servers be used to gateway to the IFAX service 
IPP servers MUST comply with all requirements of RFC2305 and 
its successors [EIFAX]. 

5.3 REDIRECTION GATEWAY SERVER

A redirection gateway is defined as an IPP server capable of 
accepting documents and submitting them to other facsimile 
services such as GSTN FAX or IFAX where the final delivery 
address is known to the server by administrative or 
recipient configuration.



SHOCKEY              EXPIRES AUGUST 1999          [PAGE 9]


INTERNET DRAFT       IPP2IFAX GOALS		February 15, 1999


This class of gateway might be used by individuals to permit 
the forwarding of transactions to e-mail addresses while on 
the road. A user has configured an IPP gateway server with a 
IPP address that is distributed on his business card or 
stationary such as.

ipp://domain.com/donald_duck

Normally all facsimile documents would be directed to the 
Output device configured for this address. If Mr. Duck is 
traveling on the road, then the server could be configured 
to automatically forward all of Mr. Ducks IPP transactions 
to his E-Mail address at donald_duck@bigducks.com as IFAX 
transactions or, perhaps delivered to a trusted colleague or 
as a GSTN fax. 

Server authorization to send by only by selected individuals 
or TLS transaction security might be optional server 
configuration options.

5.4 RELAY GATEWAY SERVER

A relay gateway is defined as a IPP server capable of 
accepting documents and submitting them to other facsimile 
services where the address is submitted to server by sender 
during an IPP Job submission through the use of IPP 
attribute extensions.

This class of IPP server might be operated by 
telecommunications carriers who are using IPP to onramp to 
GSTN fax services, thus eliminating the need for an analog 
fax point of presence for the sender.

A customer of such a fax service might be given a special 
IPP URI such as:

ipp://domain.com/fax_onramp

Once the document was created and the appropriate 
destination fax number recorded for IPP attribute 
submission, the IPP client and server could authenticate the 
transaction through the use of Digest Authorization or some 
other means.

Once the GSTN transaction was completed IPP Job records 
could be created and requested by the sender's IPP client.

The IPP relay gateway could require submission of an 



SHOCKEY              EXPIRES AUGUST 1999          [PAGE 10]


INTERNET DRAFT       IPP2IFAX GOALS		February 15, 1999


appropriate fax file format or be configured to accept a 
variety of PDL's and conversion done at the server.

6.0 LEGAL ISSUES

The use of IPP as an Internet Facsimile Service SHOULD 
attempt to accommodate the legal requirements for GSTN 
facsimile.

6.1 UNITED STATES LAW	

The United States Federal Communication Commission 
regulations and US Federal Law (47 USC 227) state:

{quote}

   "Identification Required on Fax Messages

    The FCC's rules require that any message sent to a fax 
machine must clearly mark on the first page or on each page 
of the message:
* the date and time the transmission is sent;
* the identity of the sender; and
* the telephone number of the sender or of the sending fax 
machine.

All fax machines manufactured on or after December 20, 1992 
and all facsimile modem boards manufactured on or after 
December 13,1995 must have the capability to clearly mark 
such identifying Information on the first page or on each 
page of the Transmission."

{end quote}

Of particular note is that there is no requirement that the 
marks for identifying information be placed on every page. 
The legal requirement is only for the first page, though it 
has become custom and practice among all FAX device 
manufacturers to include the "watermark" on each page 
transmitted.

6.2 LEGAL REQUIREMENTS IN OTHER NATIONS

Many nations have legal requirements for FAX similar to 
those in the United States.

6.3 "WATERMARKING" OF PAGES

The marking of pages in FAX is commonly referred to as 
"watermarking" of the transmission. These marks are 

SHOCKEY              EXPIRES AUGUST 1999          [PAGE 11]


INTERNET DRAFT       IPP2IFAX GOALS		February 15, 1999


typically placed at the top of each page by the sender's FAX 
terminal device or software application. The information 
inserted into page may contain time/date information, sender 
identification [typically T.30 CSID frame data] and page 
number information. The sender's device creates this data at 
the moment the transaction begins. The recipient output 
device does not modify the document once it is received.

IPP Clients SHOULD, when operating in a facsimile service 
mode, insert such data into the PDL before connection to a 
IPP server irrespective or whether the transaction will 
gateway to the GSTN or IFAX service.

6.4  COVER PAGES

Closely associated with the legal issues are the formats and 
requirements for cover pages. 

IPP has facilities for the generation of cover pages defined 
as Job-Separation pages generated by the recipient IPP 
Output device. The format of the IPP Job-Separation pages 
are implementation specific and may not satisfy the legal or 
general custom and practice involved in facsimile services.

6.4.1 TYPICIAL COVER PAGE DATA

To satisfy legal requirements for Facsimile transmission 
cover pages:

MUST contain identification of Sender:
SHOULD contain identification of Recipient:
MUST contain time/Date of Transmission:
MAY contain number of pages in Transmission:
MAY contain an area for short comments:

IPP Client workstation software, when operating in a 
facsimile service mode, SHOULD offer Cover Page generation 
options to be inserted into the PDL and MAY offer other 
features, as deemed appropriate.

7.0 SCENERIOS OF IPP BEHAIVOR IN A FACSIMILE SERVICE MODE

The following are several scenarios illustrating how IPP 
could be used in a facsimile service mode.  Some parts of 
these scenarios may include functions or capabilities that 
are outside the current scope and capabilities of either IPP 
or IFAX.




SHOCKEY              EXPIRES AUGUST 1999          [PAGE 12]


INTERNET DRAFT       IPP2IFAX GOALS		February 15, 1999


Legend:

C. = IPP Client
S. = IPP Server
O. = Operator

7.1  IPP WORKSTATION TO IPP OUTPUT DEVICE

In this example an individual at a workstation or personal 
computer has created a document using some form of document 
editor and wishes to transmit that document in a facsimile 
service mode to an IPP Output device.

O. Creates Document on Workstation
O. Select IPP Output Driver from list of available printers
O. Selects Facsimile Service Mode from IPP client 
application options menu
O. Enters Cover Page Data into IPP client application
O. Enters IPP URI address of server
C. Begins IPP transaction
S. Negotiation of PDL requirements
C. Renders output of Cover Page Data and "watermarks" pages 
into Document PDL stream.
S. Accepts data and Outputs transaction
C. Logs successful transaction
S. Logs successful transaction

NOTE: No attempt is made to negotiate support for RFC2301 or 
file formats or GSTN FAX. It is not necessary since there is 
no attempt to gateway to GSTN FAX or IFAX services. 

7.2 IPP NETWORK SCANNING DEVICE TO IPP OUTPUT DEVICE

A sender is using a network scanner device to imput an 
existing document for submission by IPP to an Output Device.

O. Manually create or organize documents for transmission
O. Manually fill out predeveloped cover page form and add to 
the documents to be transmitted
O. Insert documents into network scanner device
O. Select IPP facsimile service mode
O. Enter IPP URI address of Output server
C. Scan documents inserting "watermark" on pages into PDL 
stream
S. Accepts data and Outputs transaction
C. Logs successful transaction
S. Logs successful transaction




SHOCKEY              EXPIRES AUGUST 1999          [PAGE 13]


INTERNET DRAFT       IPP2IFAX GOALS		February 15, 1999


NOTE: No attempt is made to negotiate support for RFC2301 
file formats or GSTN FAX. It is not necessary since there is 
no attempt to gateway to GSTN FAX or IFAX services.

7.3 IPP NETWORK SCANNING DEVICE TO GATEWAY FOR ULTIMATE 
DELIVERY BY GSTN FAX

A sender is using a network scanning device to imput a 
document using IPP to onramp to a fax service bureau which 
will ultimately deliver the document to a existing GSTN FAX 
machine designated by the operator.

O. Manually create or organize documents for transmission
O. Manually fill out predeveloped cover page form and add to 
the documents to be transmitted
O. Insert documents into network scanner device
O. Select IPP facsimile service mode
O. Enter IPP URI of onramp service bureau
O. Enter E.164 address of ultimate destination 
O. Begin IPP transaction
S. Request authorization of IPP client via RFC2069 [Digest 
Auth]
C. Submit user ID and passcode
C. IPP request to gateway to GSTN FAX at specified E.164 
number
C. Negotiate acceptance of PDL
S. PCL5 or TIFF Profile S presented as options
C. Renders documents into PCL5 and submits
S. Converts PCL5 data stream to appropriate format for GSTN 
FAX transmission.
S. Completes GSTN transmission
S. Logs successful transaction
C. Polls IPP gateway for transaction record
C. Logs successful transaction 

7.4 IPP WORKSTATION TO GATEWAY FOR ULTIMATE DELIVERY BY E-
MAIL

A recipient desires that all inbound IPP transactions to his 
personal IPP address be converted to a IFAX message. 

O. Sender creates Document on Workstation
O. Select IPP Output Driver from list of available printers
O. Selects Facsimile Service Mode from IPP client 
application options menu
O. Enters Cover Page Data into IPP client application
O. Enters IPP URI address of server
C. Begins IPP transaction
S. Negotiation of PDL requirements


SHOCKEY              EXPIRES AUGUST 1999          [PAGE 14]


INTERNET DRAFT       IPP2IFAX GOALS		February 15, 1999


C. Renders output of Cover Page Data and "watermarks" pages 
into Document PDL stream.
S. Accepts PDL data 
C. Logs successful transaction
S. Converts PDL stream to appropriate RFC2301 file format 
specified by recipient and submits IFAX message to E-Mail 
address specified by recipient. 
S. Logs successful transaction

NOTE: It is assumed that the IPP redirection server has 
access to some form of internal table or directory service 
that has the recipients preferences for reception.

8.0	ACKNOLEDGEMENTS

The author would like to acknowledge the assistance of 
members of both the IETF FAX and IETF IPP work groups who 
have provided invaluable assistance and imput during the 
development of this document: Dan Wing, Graham Klyne, Carl-
Uno Manros, Larry Masinter

9.0 REFERENCES

[CONNEG-FEATURE-SYNTAX] G. Klyne, "A syntax for describing 
media feature sets", Internet Draft, Work in Progress,draft-
ietf-conneg-feature-syntax-xx.txt.

[FAX-SCHEMA] L. McIntyre, G. Klyne, "Content feature schema 
for Internet fax", Internet Draft, Work in Progress,
draft-ietf-fax-feature-schema-xx.txt.

[GOALS] L. Masinter, "Terminology and Goals for Internet 
Fax", Internet Draft, Work in Progress, draft-ietf-fax-
goals-xx.txt.

[EIFAX] L. Masinter, D. Wing, "Extended Facsimile Using 
Internet Mail" Work in Progress draft-ietf-fax-eifax-xx.txt 
October 1998
	
[FAX] [T.30] ITU-T, "Procedures for Document Facsimile 
Transmission in the General Switched Telephone Network", 
ITU-T, Recommendation T.30, July, 1996.

[T.38] ITU-T, "Procedures for real time Group 3 facsimile 
communications over IP networks"" ITU-T Recommendation T.38, 
July 1998

[T.37] ITU-T, "Procedures for the transfer of facsimile data 
via store and forward on the Internet", ITU-T Recommendation 
T.37, July 1998

SHOCKEY              EXPIRES AUGUST 1999          [PAGE 15]


INTERNET DRAFT       IPP2IFAX GOALS		February 15, 1999


[H.323] ITU-T, "Visual Telephone systems and equipment for 
local area networks which provide a non guaranteed quality 
of service", Recommendation H.323, November 1996

[E.164] ITU-T, "The international public telecommunications 
numbering plan"" Recommendation E.164/I.331, June 1997

[RFC 867/868] J. Postel, K. Harrenstien,  "Daytime Protocol" 
RFC867, "Time Protocol" RF868, May 1983 

[RFC1894] [DSN] K. Moore, G. Vaudreuil, "An Extensible 
Message Format for Delivery Status Notifications", RFC 1894, 
January 1996.

[RFC2119] S. Bradner, "Key words for use in RFC's to 
Indicate Requirement Levels", RFC2119, March 1997

[RFC2246] T. Dirks, C. Allen, "The TLS Protocol Version 
1.0", RFC2246, January 1999 

[RFC2298] [MDN] R. Fajman, "An Extensible Message Format for 
Message Disposition Notifications", RFC 2298, March 1998.

[RFC2301] L. McIntyre, S. Zilles, R. Buckley, D. Venable, G.    
Parsons, J. Rafferty, "File Format for Internet Fax", RFC 
2301, March 1998.

[RFC2303] C. Allocchio, "Minimal PSTN address format in 
Internet Mail", RFC 3203, March 1998

[RFC2304] C. Allocchio, "Minimal FAX address format in 
Internet Mail", RFC 2304, March 1998 

[IFAX] [RFC2305] K. Toyoda, H. Ohno, J. Murai, D. Wing, "A 
Simple Mode of Facsimile Using Internet Mail", RFC 2305, 
March 1998.

[RFC2306] G. Parsons, J. Rafferty "Tag Image File Format 
(TIFF) - Profile for Facsimile", RFC 2306 Status: 
Informational, March 1998

[RFC2069]  J. Franks, P. Hallam-Baker, J. Hostetler, P. 
Leach, A. Luotonen, E.  Sink, L. Stewart, "An Extension to 
HTTP: Digest Access Authentication", RFC-2069, Jan 1997.

[VPIM2] G. Vaudreuil, and G. Parsons, "Voice Profile for 
Internet Mail - version 2", RFC 2421, September 1998.




SHOCKEY              EXPIRES AUGUST 1999          [PAGE 16]


INTERNET DRAFT       IPP2IFAX GOALS		February 15, 1999


[IPP-MOD] S. Isaacson, R. deBry, T. Hastings, R. Herriot,  
P. Powell, "Internet Printing Protocol/1.0: Model and 
Semantics" draft-ietf-ipp-mod-xx.txt, Work In Progress, 
June, 1998.

[IPP-PRO] R. Herriot, S. Butler, P. Moore, R. Tuner, 
"Internet Printing Protocol/1.0: Encoding and Transport", 
Work In Progress draft-ietf-ipp-protocol-xx.txt.

[IPP-REQ] D. Wright, "Design Goals for an Internet Printing 
Protocol", Work In Progress draft-ietf-ipp-req-xx.txt.

[IPP-RAT] S. Zilles, "Rationale for the Structure of the 
Model and Protocol for the Internet Printing Protocol", Work 
In Progress, draft-ietf-ipp-rat-xx.txt. 

[IPP-NOT] R. deBry, "Requirements for IPP Notifications", 
Work in Progress, draft-ietf-ipp-not-xx.txt. 

[IPP-SCHEME] R. Herriot, C. Manros, "Internet Printing 
Protocol/NV : IPP URL Scheme", Work in Progress, draft-ietf-
ipp-scheme-xx.txt

[IPP-IMPLEMENTER] T. Hastings, C. Manros, "Internet Printing 
Protocol/1.0: Implementers's Guide", Work in Progress, 
draft-ietf-ipp-implementers-guide-xx.txt

[VCARD]  M. Smith, F. Dawson, T. Howes, "A MIME Content-Type 
for Directory Information", RFC2425, September 1998. 
F. Dawson, T. Howes, - "vCard MIME Directory Profile", 
RFC2426, September 1998. 

Additional information at : http://www.imc.org/pdi/ 

10.0  AUTHOR'S ADDRESS

Richard Shockey
Shockey Consulting LLC
8045 Big Bend Blvd
Suite 100
St. Louis, MO 63119

Voice:  314.918.9020
Fax:  314.918.9015
Email/IFAX : rshockey@ix.netcom.com






SHOCKEY              EXPIRES AUGUST 1999          [PAGE 17]


INTERNET DRAFT       IPP2IFAX GOALS		February 15, 1999




11.0 COPYRIGHT NOTICE

Copyright (C) The Internet Society 1998.  All Rights 
Reserved.This document and translations of it may be copied 
and furnished to others, and derivative works that comment 
on or otherwise explain it or assist in its implementation 
may be prepared, copied, published and distributed, in whole 
or in part, without restriction of any kind, provided that 
the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included 
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this 
document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by 
removing the copyright notice or references to the Internet 
Society or other Internet organizations, except as needed 
for the purpose of developing Internet standards in which 
case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet 
Standards process must be followed, or as required to 
translate it into languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will 
not be revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or 
assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is 
provided on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND 
THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL 
WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO 
ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT 
INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.




INTERNET DRAFT       IPP2IFAX GOALS		February 15, 1999




