

IETF MMUSIC WG                                   T. Guenkova-Luy
Internet-Draft                                   A. Schorr
Expires: August 10, 2005                         F. Hauck
                                                 University of Ulm

                                                 I. Wolf
                                                 B. Feiten
                                                 T-Systems 
                                                 International

                                                 M. Gomez
                                                 F. Galan
                                                 Agora Systems

                                                 Telma Mota 
                                                 Portugal Telecom
                                                 Inovacao 

                                                 Willem Romijn
                                                 Lucent Technologies

                                                 February 10, 2005

 Stream Tracking Description for Resource Management Guarantees in 
                             the Network
                draft-guenkova-mmusic-sdp-ng-streamtrack-00

Status of this Memo

By submitting this Internet-Draft, the authors certify that any 
applicable patent or other IPR claims of which the authors are aware 
have been disclosed, or will be disclosed, and any of which the 
authors become aware will be disclosed, in accordance with RFC 3668.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering 
Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that 
other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months 
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any 
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference 
material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at 
http://www.ietf.org/1id-abstracts.html

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at 
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html

Guenkova, et al.         Expires August 10, 2005          [Page  1]
Internet-Draft        Stream Tracking Description      February 2005

This Internet-Draft will expire on August 10, 2005.

Abstract

This document defines an extension to the Session Description 
Protocol (SDP) and to Session Description Protocol new generation 
(SDPng - work in progress). The intention of this draft is to provide 
descriptions in SDP and SDPng that specify the source port of media 
streams. Such specification within the session description is 
required in many network quality of service (QoS) management systems 
in order to be able to track the media streams from their source to 
their destination. Thus the QoS management system can differentiate 
the stream tracks end-to-end and guarantee QoS for every single 
media.


Table of Contents

1.   Introduction..........................................2
2.   Motivation............................................3
3.   RTP traffic tracking descriptions in SDP and SDPng....6
3.1.   SDP enhancement of the "m=" line......................6
3.2.   SDPng enhancement of the <rtp:ip-addr> component of the RTP 
package.....................................................7
4.   IANA Considerations...................................9
5.   Security considerations..............................10
References.................................................10
Authors' Addresses.........................................11
Acknowledgements...........................................13
Copyright Notice...........................................13
Liability notice...........................................13

1.   Introduction

The intention of this draft is to provide descriptions in SDP [1] and 
SDPng [2] that specify the source port of media streams. Such 
specification within the session description is required in many 
network quality of service (QoS) management systems in order to be 
able to track the media streams from their source to their 
destination, especially in cases where it is necessary to distinguish 
between several different network flows which are all sent from the 
same source IP address to the same destination. Thus the QoS 
management system can differentiate the stream tracks end-to-end and 
guarantee QoS for every single media. Additionally, this draft can be 
considered an extension to RFC 3312 [3]. RFC 3312 also treats 
resource reservation issues, but it addresses predominantly the 
problem of resource reservation coordination using the Session 
Initiation Protocol (SIP) [4]. The problem of indicating and 
distinguishing the network flows of the multimedia end-to-end in 
order to guarantee their reservation is not treated in RFC 3312.

Guenkova, et al.         Expires August 10, 2005          [Page  2]
Internet-Draft        Stream Tracking Description      February 2005

In this draft we consider first the multimedia management 
architectures that serve as motivation for the proposed SDP and SDPng 
enhancements. We discuss the structure of the enhancements and give 
corresponding examples. The draft is concluded with security 
considerations about the usage of the proposed enhancements. 

2.   Motivation

Most of the Next Generation Network specifications have a similar 
architecture to the one proposed by the 3GPP UMTS IP Multimedia 
Subsystem (IMS) [5] and include a dedicated platform for delivering 
of Multimedia Services over the underlying Packet-Switched network. 
Such multimedia provisioning platforms usually comprise the following 
elements:

o   A control plane based on signalling proxy entities, usually SIP-
based [4]. 

o   A native service-provisioning platform, implemented over a set of 
Application Servers based on the native signalling protocol(s) 
supported by the platform.

o   A set of media-processing elements, for the provisioning of 
advanced multimedia services.

o   A set of interconnection elements, belonging to both the signalling 
and the media-processing level that enable the access to foreign 
services, service domains or legacy systems.

The multimedia-services control plane can be decomposed into three 
main logical control functions:

o   Access proxy function (e.g. P-CSCF in IMS networks): This is the 
entry point for subscribers to the multimedia-provisioning 
platform.

o   Query proxy function (e.g. I-CSCF in IMS networks): This entity 
allows locating the service control function that handles a 
particular user. This proxy behaves also as an entry point in the 
home network for external Foreign Service domains.

o   Serving proxy function (e.g. S-CSCF in IMS networks): This is the 
entity that serves the users in the home network. It performs 
service-level control and authorization.

The "access proxy function" is the entity in charge of ensuring QoS 
for the negotiated multimedia sessions. In order to accomplish this 
task, it contacts the QoS brokerage entities in the access network to 
reserve the required resources for the requested multimedia streams. 
This interaction is usually performed using a policy control protocol 

Guenkova, et al.         Expires August 10, 2005          [Page  3]
Internet-Draft        Stream Tracking Description      February 2005

like COPS [6].

QoS Control elements may be classified according to two main 
categories: brokerage and enforcement elements. QoS Brokers (Policy 
Decision Points or PDPs, in COPS terminology) are the elements in 
charge of performing policy-based admission control and managing QoS 
resources at a global level. For scalability reasons, this element 
may be divided into a set of access network brokerage elements (the 
actual PDPs) and a core QoS broker. QoS enforcement elements (Policy 
Enforcement Points or PEPs, in COPS terminology) are the network 
routing nodes, which are in charge of applying the QoS configurations 
set up by the brokerage elements. Routing elements - the actual PEPs 
-are usually classified into:

o   Access Routers (AR) which constitute the entry point to the network 
for subscribers.

o   The Core Routers (CR) is in charge of managing QoS reservations for 
aggregated flows (macroflows).

o   The Edge Routers (ER) is in charge of interconnecting several 
DiffServ [7] domains or IntServ [8] to DiffServ mapping.  

In the presented Multimedia Service Provisioning Platform 
architecture, the access proxy element (AProxy) will contact its 
local Access Network's QoS Broker (ANQosBr) in order to reserve the 
required resources for the steams that are negotiated through 
multimedia signalling. After a successful negotiation all the QoS-
related interactions will be exchanged through the QoS provisioning 
part of the architecture, with no further interactions between the 
Service and the QoS provisioning elements.

In order to request QoS resources for a particular multimedia stream, 
the access proxy element must provide the Access Network QoS Broker 
not only a description of the required network resources (e.g. 
Service type, stream QoS characterization, etc.), but also some 
filtering criteria that enable QoS elements to identify the 
reservation target streams. Streams can usually be identified from 
the network point of view by a combination of elements from the 5-
tuple (source address, source port, destination address, destination 
port, transport protocol).

The sequence of interaction events between the components shown in 
Fig. 1 is:

o   The AProxy will interpret the SDP/SDPng content in order to arrange 
the type of QoS network reservation to be requested from the 
ANQosBroker. 

o   In order to uniquely identify the reservation for a specific flow, 
filtering information must be provided to the ANQoSBroker. 

Guenkova, et al.         Expires August 10, 2005          [Page  4]
Internet-Draft        Stream Tracking Description      February 2005

o   The ANQoSBroker will configure the AR accordingly. 

Since there is not an explicit relationship between the SIP session 
identifier and the media session (e.g. RTP session), the AR must know 
all the parameters referred in the filtering information in order to 
uniquely identify and control the admission of the packets of a 
single flow.

               +------------+  Coordination  +--------------+
               |  ANQosBr   |<-------------->|  Other QoS   |
               |(PEP1)(PDP2)|                | provisioning |
               +------------+                |   elements   |
                    ^    |                   +--------------+
               COPS |    |
                    |    |
                    \/   |
               +-------+ |      
               |AProxy | |                                     
               |(PDP1) | | QoS configuration                         
               +-------+ |              
                    ^    |                  
                    |    |
          SIP/SDP   |    |
            or      |    |
          SIP/SDPng |    |
                    |    |
                    |   \/ 
   +------+       +-------+       Access      +----+      Core
   | Host |<=====>|  AR   |<===> Network <===>| ER |<===> Network
   |      | Media | (PEP2)|       (QoS 1)     |    |      (QoS 2)
   +------+       +-------+                   +----+      

          Figure 1: Multimedia Service Provisioning Platform


Although session description protocols [1][2] describe in detail the 
multimedia-oriented service characteristics of streams, they only 
provide a basic description of their associated network parameters, 
conveying only the IP addresses, transport protocols, and reception 
ports of the streams composing the session. Several common practice 
mechanisms (e.g. symmetric RTP uses the local listening port also as 
the source port for outgoing streams [9]) are applied in order to 
infer the sender port information from the exchanged session 
descriptions delivered through the multimedia signalling, since the 
sender port information is not explicitly given in the session 
descriptions. This kind of practices should be discouraged, as they 
are vulnerable and error-prone, with the consequences of network 
resource wasting and exposure to exploitation by malicious users.


Guenkova, et al.         Expires August 10, 2005          [Page  5]
Internet-Draft        Stream Tracking Description      February 2005

Therefore, session descriptions conveyed in the multimedia signalling 
should be enhanced in order to include complete and univocal stream 
descriptions, so that access proxy elements may provide to the QoS 
subsystem all the necessary parameters for an effective flow 
distinction and tracking.

Please note that, although intended for the architecture depicted 
above, this extension may be useful for any network element issuing 
resource reservation requests based on information conveyed in 
multimedia session descriptions too, such as:

o   User terminals (e.g. using RSVP [10]).

o   Routers implementing any signalling tracking mechanism for 
automatic QoS resource reservation.

3.   RTP traffic tracking descriptions in SDP and SDPng

Session Description Protocol (SDP) [1] is intended for describing 
multimedia sessions for the purposes of session announcement, session 
invitation, and other forms of multimedia session initiation.

SDPng [2] is a meta-protocol that can describe other protocols and 
configuration mechanisms of the applications. Just like its 
predecessor SDP [1], SDPng is carried as an attachment of other 
configuration protocols (e.g. SIP [4], RTSP [11]) to exchange for 
example configuration information about RTP-based [9] multimedia 
streams. SDPng is a successor protocol of the Session Description 
Protocol [1] and is designed to be modular and extensible using the 
eXtensible Markup Language (XML) [12](unlike its predecessor SDP). 
SDPng is designed to support more complex media features and 
scenarios than SDP, including quality of service (QoS), security 
support for media transfer, etc [13].

Sections 3.1 and 3.2 describe the proposed enhancements for SDP and 
SDPng to include information about media source ports, thus enabling 
effective flow distinction and tracking as discussed and motivated in 
Chapter 2.

3.1.   SDP enhancement of the "m=" line

The following defines the model for the SDP enhancement:

m=<media> <port>/<number of ports>/<sender port>/<number of sender 
ports> <proto> <fmt>

An example corresponding to the above model is:


Guenkova, et al.         Expires August 10, 2005          [Page  6]
Internet-Draft        Stream Tracking Description      February 2005

m=video 49170/2/50080/2 RTP/AVP 31

Meaning of the example:

o   The media type is "video"

o   The first RTP receiving port in use is 49170

o   The second RTP receiving port in use is 49172

o   The first RTCP port that corresponds the first receiving RTP port 
is 49171

o   The second RTCP port that corresponds the second receiving RTP port 
is 49173

o   The first RTP sending port in use is 50080

o   The second RTP sending port in use is 50082

o   The first RTCP sending port that corresponds the first RTP sending 
port is 50081

o   The second RTCP sending port that corresponds the second RTP 
sending port is 550083

o   The protocol in use is RTP with the AVP profile [14]

o   The applied payload format is number 31 according to [14]

Note that if QoS shall be guaranteed for RTP streams, it shall also 
be guaranteed for their corresponding RTCP traffic, as the timely 
reports for the RTP traffic are important for the QoS relevant 
adaptations of the traffic. 

3.2.   SDPng enhancement of the <rtp:ip-addr> component of the RTP 
package

Due to the line wrapping of the format required for this document the 
original indentation as usual for XML layout does not appear 
correctly, i.e. the bracket pairs "<" and "/>" or "<" and ">", or 
"</" and ">" always indicate single unbreakable lines. Additionally, 
the conventional ordering of the XML hierarchical elements appears as 
hierarchical tree layout. All the XML examples and schemas in this 
document are proven on wellformness and validity with XMLSpy Software 
[15].

The following SDPng definition is the expression that corresponds to 
the definition in SDP within the previous Section 3.1. In order to 

Guenkova, et al.         Expires August 10, 2005          [Page  7]
Internet-Draft        Stream Tracking Description      February 2005

achieve similar expressiveness as the "m=" line in SDP, we redefine 
the <rtp:ip-addr> element of SDPng. The new definition of the IP 
address and RTP ports in the SDPng RTP package (see [2]) is provided 
through the application of two new XML complex types.

The XML schema snippets corresponding the new "IP addresses" and "RTP 
ports" complex types are:

Port Type:

<xsd:complexType name="portType">
   <xsd:sequence>
      <xsd:element name="rtp-port" type="sdpng:opttoken" 
minOccurs="0"/>
      <xsd:element name="rtcp-port" type="sdpng:opttoken" 
minOccurs="0"/>
      <xsd:element name="rtp-port-offset" type="sdpng:opttoken" 
minOccurs="0"/>
      <xsd:element name="rtp-sendport" type="sdpng:opttoken" 
minOccurs="0"/>
      <xsd:element name="rtcp-sendport" type="sdpng:opttoken" 
minOccurs="0"/>
      <xsd:element name="rtp-sendport-offset" type="sdpng:opttoken" 
minOccurs="0"/>
   </xsd:sequence>
</xsd:complexType>

IP Address Type:

<xsd:complexType name="addrType">
   <xsd:complexContent>
      <xsd:extension base="rtp:portType">
         <xsd:attribute name="ip" type="xsd:NMTOKEN" use="required"/>
      </xsd:extension>
   </xsd:complexContent>
</xsd:complexType>

The definition of the new corresponding element in the RTP XML schema 
would be then:

<xsd:element name="ip-addr" type="sdpng:opttoken" minOccurs="0"/>

As a result of this new definition the port definitions are put in 
the container for the IP Address <rtp:ip-addr>. The complete 
definition is still a sub-element of the <rtp:udp> container [2] as 
shown in the example below:


Guenkova, et al.         Expires August 10, 2005          [Page  8]
Internet-Draft        Stream Tracking Description      February 2005

<rtp:udp name="rtp-cfg001">
         ...
   <rtp:ip-addr ip="134.60.70.80">
      <rtp:rtp-port>49170</rtp:rtp-port>
      <rtp:rtcp-port>49171</rtp:rtcp-port>
      <rtp:rtp-port-offset>1</rtp:rtp-port-offset>
      <rtp:rtp-sendport>50080</rtp:rtp-sendport>
      <rtp:rtcp-sendport>50081</rtp:rtcp-sendport>
      <rtp:rtp-sendport-offset>1</rtp:rtp-sendport-offset>
   </rtp:ip-addr>
         ...
</rtp:udp>

This SDPng description corresponds to the same parameter 
configuration as in the SDP example given in Section 3.1. The 
difference to SDP is that the pairs of RTP and RTCP ports are now 
combined in a way that it is evident how the single ports belong 
together (compared to the SDP "a=rtcp:" definition [1]). The elements 
<rtp:rtp-port-offset> and <rtp:rtp-sendport-offset> indicate that 
additional pair/-s of correspondingly receiving and sending RTP/RTCP 
ports SHALL be considered. The counting of the port numbers of every 
next pair starts in this case with the number of the RTCP port as 
basis.

For example:

<rtp:rtp-port>49170</rtp:rtp-port>
<rtp:rtcp-port>49171</rtp:rtcp-port>
<rtp:rtp-port-offset>1</rtp:rtp-port-offset> 

specifies that 1 additional pair of ports shall be taken, i.e.

o   The first RTP receiving port in use is 49170

o   The first RTCP port that corresponds the first receiving RTP port 
is 49171

o   The second RTP receiving port in use is 49172 (i.e. RTCP port 1 
plus 1)

o   The second RTCP port that corresponds the second receiving RTP port 
is 49173 (i.e. RTCP port 1 plus 2).

In case of n-port offsets:

<rtp:rtp-port>49170</rtp:rtp-port>
<rtp:rtcp-port>49171</rtp:rtcp-port>
<rtp:rtp-port-offset>n</rtp:rtp-port-offset> 

every n-th pair of RTP/RTCP ports is calculated as RTP_n=RTCP_1+n and 

Guenkova, et al.         Expires August 10, 2005          [Page  9]
Internet-Draft        Stream Tracking Description      February 2005

RTCP_n= RTCP_1+n+1

The same definition holds true also for the RTP/RTCP sender ports 
(i.e. rtp:rtp-sendport>, <rtp:rtcp-sendport> and <rtp:rtp-sendport-
offset>). 

4.   IANA Considerations

The IANA should set up a registry for XML namespaces for SDPng and    
SDPng package definitions.

The SDP parameter registry (http://www.iana.org/assignments/sdp-
parameters) should be converted to SDPng package definitions.

The inputs of this draft are not concurrent to the inputs of the 
original SDPng draft [2], hence they SHOULD be considered as 
belonging to the same namespace as long as SDPng is concerned.

The exact structure of the SDPng namespace depends also on the fact 
if SDPng work in progress [2] shall be continued or if this draft 
shall take over the SDPng development.

5.   Security considerations

The explicit definition of RTP/RTCP receiver and sender ports allows 
the QoS entities in the network to prove upon the session 
descriptions that the terminals are in line with their QoS 
specifications as the complete sender-to-receiver track is monitored. 
Furthermore, network resource wasting and/or exposure of the network 
streams to exploitation by malicious users is avoided as the QoS 
relevant streams are declared explicitly for monitoring in the 
session descriptions. 

The problem of the security should also be studies further with 
respect to Firewall and NAT traversal, as the proposed solution in 
this document requires interactions between the session signalling 
and the multimedia streaming. In order to achieve correspondence 
between these two types of signalling the security components SHALL 
apply similar to the IMS architecture (see also Chapter 2) in order 
to guarantee conformant treatment for both the session signalling and 
the corresponding multimedia streaming. 

Since SDP and SDPng are a description formats carried by other 
protocols (SIP [8], RTSP [11], etc.), SDP and SDPng rely on the 
security provided by their carriers to guarantee faultless end-to-end 
transfer.



Guenkova, et al.         Expires August 10, 2005          [Page 10]
Internet-Draft        Stream Tracking Description      February 2005

References

[1]   M. Handley, V. Jacobson, "SDP: Session Description 
Protocol", IETF RFC 2327, April 1998 and M. Handley, V. 
Jacobson, C. Perkins, "SDP: Session Description Protocol", 
draft-ietf-mmusic-sdp-new-23.txt, December 2004.

[2]   D. Kutscher et al., "Session description and capability 
negotiation", IETF Internet-Draft, Work-in-progress: draft-
ietf-mmusic-sdpng-07, October 2003.

[3]   G. Camarillo, W. Marshall, J. Rosenberg, "Integration of 
Resource Management and Session Initiation Protocol", IETF 
RFC 3312, October 2002.

[4]   J. Rosenberg et al., "SIP: Session Initiation Protocol", 
IETF RFC 3261, June 2002.

[5]   3GPP TS 23.228 v 6.8.0, "IP Multimedia Subsystem (IMS); 
Stage 2 (Release 6)", December 2004.

[6]   D. Durham et al, "The COPS (Common Open Policy Service) 
Protocol", IETF RFC 2748, January 2000.

[7]   S. Blake et al., "An Architecture for Differentiated 
Service", IETF RFC 2475, December 1998.

[8]   R. Braden, D. Clark, S. Shenker, "Integrated Services in the 
Internet Architecture: an Overview", IETF RFC 1633, June 
1994.

[9]   H. Schulzrinne et al., "RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-
Time Applications", IETF RFC 3550, July 2003.

[10]   R. Braden et al, "Resource ReSerVation Protocol (RSVP) -- 
Version 1 Functional Specification", IETF RFC 2205, 
September 1997.

[11]   H. Schulzrinne, A. Rao, R. Lanphier, "Real Time Streaming 
Protocol (RTSP)", IETF RFC 2326, April 1998 and H. 
Schulzrinne et al., "Real Time Streaming Protocol (RTSP)", 
draft-ietf-mmusic-rfc2326bis-07.txt, July 2004.

[12]   W3C, "Extensible Markup Language (XML) 1.0 (Second 
Edition)".

[13]   J. Ott, C. Perkins, "SDPng Transition", IETF Internet-Draft 
(draft-ietf-mmusic-sdpng-trans-04), May 2003.

[14]   H. Schulzrinne, S. Casner, "RTP Profile for Audio and Video 
Conferences with Minimal Control", IETF RFC 3551, July 2003

Guenkova, et al.         Expires August 10, 2005          [Page 11]
Internet-Draft        Stream Tracking Description      February 2005

[15]   Altova GmbH & Altova Inc., XMLSpy IDE version 4.3, 
www.altova.com

Authors' Addresses

   Teodora Guenkova-Luy
   Dept. Distributed Systems, University of Ulm, 
   Oberer Eselsberg, 89069 Ulm, Germany
   Tel: +49 (0)731 502-4148 
   Fax: +49 (0)731 502-4142 
   e-Mail: guenkova@vs.informatik.uni-ulm.de

   Andreas Schorr
   Dept. Distributed Systems, University of Ulm, 
   Oberer Eselsberg, 89069 Ulm, Germany   
   Tel: +49 (0)731 502-4147
   Fax: +49 (0)731 502-4142
   e-Mail: schorr@informatik.uni-ulm.de

   Franz Hauck
   Dept. Distributed Systems, University of Ulm, 
   Oberer Eselsberg, 89069 Ulm, Germany
   Tel: +49 (0)731 502-4143
   Fax: +49 (0)731 502-4142
   e-Mail: hauck@informatik.uni-ulm.de

   Ingo Wolf
   T-Systems International GmbH 
   Goslarer Ufer 35, 10589 Berlin, Germany
   Tel:      +49 (0)30 3497 2526 
   Fax:      +49 (0)30 3497 2929 
   E-mail:   wolfi@t-systems.com

   Bernhard Feiten
   T-Systems International GmbH
   Goslarer Ufer 35, 10589 Berlin, Germany
   Tel: +49 (0)30 3497 2528
   Fax:      +49 (0)30 3497 2929 
   e-Mail: Bernhard.Feiten@t-systems.com

   Miguel Gomez
   Agora Systems, S.A.
   Aravaca 12, 1 A. 28040 Madrid, Spain
   Tel: +34-91-533-58-57
   Fax: +34-91-534-84-77
   e-Mail: miguel.gomez@agora-2000.com



Guenkova, et al.         Expires August 10, 2005          [Page 12]
Internet-Draft        Stream Tracking Description      February 2005

   Fermin Galan
   Agora Systems, S.A.
   Aravaca 12, 1 A. 28040 Madrid, Spain
   Tel: +34-91-533-58-57
   Fax: +34-91-534-84-77
   e-Mail: fermin.galan@agora-2000.com

   Telma Mota
   Portugal Telecom Inova??o, SA 
   Rua Eng. Jos? Ferreira Pinto Basto
   3810 AVEIRO, Portugal
   Tel: +351-234-403-280
   e-mail: telma@ptinovacao.pt

   Willem A. Romijn
   Lucent Technologies Nederland B.V.
   Larenseweg 50
   1221 CN  Hilversum
   The Netherlands
   Tel: +31 35 687 4672
   e-mail: romijn@lucent.com

Acknowledgements

The work described in this draft is based on results of IST FP6 
Integrated Project DAIDALOS. DAIDALOS receives research funding from 
the European Community's Sixth Framework Programme. Apart from this, 
the European Commission has no responsibility for the content of this 
draft. The information in this document is provided as is and no 
guarantee or warranty is given that the information is fit for any 
particular purpose. The user thereof uses the information at its sole 
risk and liability. 

Additional support has been provided by the DFG within the AKOM 
framework.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2005).  This document is subject 
to the rights, licenses and restrictions contained in BCP 78, and 
except as set forth therein, the authors retain all their rights. 

Liability notice

This document and the information contained herein are provided on an 
"AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE REPRESENTS 
OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET 
ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, 
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE 
INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED 
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Guenkova, et al.         Expires August 10, 2005          [Page 13]
