



Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


           Application Performance Measurement MIB
              draft-ietf-rmonmib-apm-mib-02.txt
                      November 22, 2000


                      Steven Waldbusser

                  waldbusser@nextbeacon.com





Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance
with all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet
Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working
groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
documents at any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-
Drafts as reference material or to cite them other than as
"work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed
at http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2000).  All Rights Reserved.

1.  Abstract

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base
(MIB) for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-
based internets.  In particular, it defines objects for
measuring the application performance as experienced by end-





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001             [Page 1]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


users.

2.  The SNMP Management Framework

   The SNMP Management Framework presently consists of five
   major components:

    o   An overall architecture, described in RFC 2571 [1].

    o   Mechanisms for describing and naming objects and
        events for the purpose of management. The first
        version of this Structure of Management Information
        (SMI) is called SMIv1 and described in STD 16, RFC
        1155 [2], STD 16, RFC 1212 [3] and RFC 1215 [4]. The
        second version, called SMIv2, is described in STD 58,
        RFC 2578 [5], RFC 2579 [6] and RFC 2580 [7].

    o   Message protocols for transferring management
        information. The first version of the SNMP message
        protocol is called SNMPv1 and described in STD 15, RFC
        1157 [8]. A second version of the SNMP message
        protocol, which is not an Internet standards track
        protocol, is called SNMPv2c and described in RFC 1901
        [9] and RFC 1906 [10]. The third version of the
        message protocol is called SNMPv3 and described in RFC
        1906 [10], RFC 2572 [11] and RFC 2574 [12].

    o   Protocol operations for accessing management
        information. The first set of protocol operations and
        associated PDU formats is described in STD 15, RFC
        1157 [8]. A second set of protocol operations and
        associated PDU formats is described in RFC 1905 [13].

    o   A set of fundamental applications described in RFC
        2573 [14] and the view-based access control mechanism
        described in RFC 2575 [15].

   A more detailed introduction to the current SNMP Management
   Framework can be found in RFC 2570 [22].

   Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information
   store, termed the Management Information Base or MIB.
   Objects in the MIB are defined using the mechanisms defined
   in the SMI.






Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001             [Page 2]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


   This memo specifies a MIB module that is compliant to the
   SMIv2. A MIB conforming to the SMIv1 can be produced
   through the appropriate translations. The resulting
   translated MIB must be semantically equivalent, except
   where objects or events are omitted because no translation
   is possible (use of Counter64). Some machine readable
   information in SMIv2 will be converted into textual
   descriptions in SMIv1 during the translation process.
   However, this loss of machine readable information is not
   considered to change the semantics of the MIB.








































Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001             [Page 3]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


3.  Overview

This document continues the architecture created in the RMON
MIB [18] by providing analysis of application performance as
experienced by end-users.

Application performance measurement measures the quality of
service delivered to end-users by applications. With this
perspective, a true end-to-end view of the IT infrastrure
results, combining the performance of the application,
desktop, network, and server, as well as any positive or
negative interactions between these components.

Despite all the technically sophisticated ways in which
networking and system resources can be measured, human end-
users perceive only two things about an application:
availability and responsiveness.

   Availability - The percentage of the time that the
   application is ready to give a user service.

   Responsiveness - The speed at which the application
   delivers the requested service.

A transaction is an action initiated by a user that starts and
completes a distributed processing function. A transaction
begins when a user initiates a request for service (i.e.
pushing a submit button) and ends when the work is completed
(i.e. information is provided or a confirmation is delivered).
A transaction is the fundamental item measured by the APM MIB.

Application protocols implement one of three different types
of transactions: transaction-oriented, throughput-oriented, or
streaming-oriented. While the availability metric is the same
for all three types, the responsiveness metric varies:

   Transaction-Oriented: These transactions have a fairly
   constant workload to perform for all transactions. The
   responsiveness metric for transaction-oriented applications
   is application response time, the elapsed time between the
   user's request for service (e.g. pushing the submit button)
   and the completion of the request (e.g. displaying the
   results) and is measured in milliseconds. This is commonly
   referred to as end-user response time.






Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001             [Page 4]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


   Throughput-Oriented: These transactions have widely varying
   workloads based on the amount of data requested. The
   responsiveness metric for throughput-oriented applications
   is seconds per terabit. For example, 2Kbps is equal to 500
   Million sec/Tb and 1Gbps is equal to 1000 sec/Tb. The
   inverting of the popular bits per second is done so that
   for all responsiveness metrics, lower values are better.
   Software that displays these metrics to humans is urged to
   convert them to a more familiar form when displaying them,
   for example kilobits per second or megabits per second.

   Streaming-Oriented: These transactions deliver data at a
   constant metered rate of speed regardless of excess
   capacity in the networking and computing infrastructure.
   However, when the infrastructure's cannot deliver data at
   this speed, interruption of service or degradation of
   service can result. The responsiveness metric for
   streaming-oriented applications is the signal quality ratio
   of time that the service is degraded or interrupted to the
   total service time. This metric is measured in parts per
   million.


3.1.  Report Aggregation

This MIB provides functions to aggregate measurements into
higher level summaries.

Every transaction is identified by its application, server,
and client and has an availability measure as well as a
responsiveness measure. The appropriate responsiveness measure
is context-sensitive depending on whether the application is
transaction-oriented, throughput-oriented, or streaming-
oriented. For example, in a 5 minute period several
transactions might be recorded:

Application  Client  Server   Successful    Responsiveness
HTTP         Jim     Amazon   1             6 sec.
SAP/R3       Jane    SAP      1             17 sec.
HTTP         Joe     HR       0             -
FTP          Jim     ietf     1             47MspTb (212 Kbps)
HTTP         Joe     HR       1             25 sec.
RealVideo    Joe     CNN      1             100.0%
HTTP         Jane    HR       1             5 sec.






Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001             [Page 5]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


These transactions can be aggregated in several ways,
providing statistical summaries - for example summarizing all
HTTP transactions, or all HTTP transactions to the HR Server.
Note that data from different applications may not be
summarized because:

   1. The performance characteristics of different
   applications differ widely enough to render statistical
   analysis meaningless.

   2. The responsiveness metrics of different applications may
   be different, making a statistical analysis impossible (in
   other words, one application may be transaction-oriented,
   while another is throughput-oriented).

Aggregating transactions collected over a period requires an
aggregation algorithm. In this MIB, transaction aggregation
always results in the following statistics:

TransactionCount
    The total number of transactions during this period

SuccessfulTransactions
    The total number of transactions that were successful. The
    management station can derive the percent success by dividing
    SuccessfulTransactions by the TransactionCount.

ResponsivenessMean
    The average of the responsiveness metric for all aggregated
    transactions that completed successfully

ResponsivenessMin
    The minimum responsiveness metric for all aggregated transactions
    that completed successfully

ResponsivenessMax
    The maximum responsiveness metric for all aggregated transactions
    that completed successfully

ResponsivenessBx
    The count of successful transactions whose responsiveness metric
    fell into the range specified for Bx. There are 7 buckets
    specified. Because the performance of different applications varies
    widely, the bucket ranges are specified separately for each
    application (in the apmAppDirectoryTable) so that they may be





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001             [Page 6]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


    tuned to typical performance of each application.

For example, when aggregating the previous set of transactions
by application we get (for simplicity the example only shows
TransactionCount, SuccessfulTransactions, and
ResponsivenessMean):

Application  Count Successful      ResponsivenessMean
HTTP         4     3               12 sec.
SAP/R3       1     1               17 sec.
FTP          1     1               212 Kbps.
RealVideo    1     1               100.0%

There are four different types of aggregation.

   The flows(1) aggregation is the simplest. All transactions
   that share common application/server/client 3-tuples are
   aggregated together, resulting in a set of metrics for all
   such unique 3-tuples.

   The clients(2) aggregation results in somewhat more
   aggregation (i.e. fewer resulting records). All
   transactions that share common application/client tuples
   are aggregated together, resulting in a set of metrics for
   all such unique tuples.

   The servers(3) aggregation usually results in still more
   aggregation (i.e. fewer resulting records). All
   transactions that share common application/server tuples
   are aggregated together, resulting in a set of metrics for
   all such unique tuples.

   The applications(4) aggregation results in the most
   aggregation (i.e. the fewest resulting records). All
   transactions that share a common application are aggregated
   together, resulting in a set of metrics for all such unique
   applications.













Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001             [Page 7]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


   The apmReportControlTable provides for a historical set of the
   last 'X' reports, combining the historical records found in
   history tables with the periodic snapshots found in TopN tables.
   Conceptually the components are:

   APMReportControlTable
       Specifies data collection and summarization parameters, including
       the number of reports to keep and the size of each report.

   APMReport
       Each APM Report contains an aggregated list of records
       that represent data collected during a specific time period.

       An APMReportControlEntry causes a family of APM Reports to be
       created, where each report summarizes different, successive,
       contiguous periods of time.

       While the conceptual model of APM Reports shows them as distinct
       entities, they are all entries in a single apmReportTable, where
       entries in report 'A' are seperated from entries in report 'B'
       by different values of the apmReportIndex.

    +-----------------------+
    |                       |
    | APMReportControlTable |
    |                       |      +-----------+
    +-----------------------+      |           |
                               +-----------+   |
                               |           |   |
                           +-----------+   |---+
                           |           |   |
                       +----------+    |---+
                       |          |    |               APMReport
                       |APMReport |----+  +-----------------------+
                       |          |       |Thu Mar 30 12-1PM      |
                       +----------+       |                       |
                                          |CLNT SERV  PROT  stats |
                                          |                       |
                                          |Joe  CNN   HTTP  data  |
                                          |Jan  POP   POP3  data  |
                                          |Jan  POP   SMTP  data  |
                                          |Bob  HR    PSOFT data  |
                                          |...                    |
                                          |...                    |
                                          +-----------------------+





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001             [Page 8]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


3.2.  Structure of MIB

The objects are arranged into the following groups:

        - APM Application Directory Group

        - APM User Defined Applications Group

        - APM Report Group

        - APM Current Transaction Group

        - APM Exception Group

        - APM Notification Group

These groups are the basic unit of conformance.  If an agent
implements a group, then it must implement all objects in that
group. While this section provides an overview of grouping and
conformance information for this MIB, the authoritative
reference for such information is contained in the MODULE-
COMPLIANCE and OBJECT-GROUP macros later in this MIB.

These groups are defined to provide a means of assigning
object identifiers, and to provide a method for implementors
of managed agents to know which objects they must implement.

3.2.1.  The APM Application Directory Group

The APM Application Directory group contains configuration
objects for every application or application verb monitored on
this system. This group consists of the apmAppDirectoryTable.

3.2.2.  The APM User Defined Applications Group

The APM User Defined Applications Group contains objects that
allow for the tracking of applications or application verbs
that aren't registered in the protocolDirectoryTable. This
group consist of the apmHttpFilterTable and the
apmUserDefinedAppTable.

3.2.3.  The APM Report Group

The APM Report Group is used to prepare regular reports that
aggregate application performance by flow, by client, by





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001             [Page 9]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


server, or by application. This group consists of the
apmReportControlTable and the apmReportTable.

3.2.4.  The APM Current Transaction Group

The APM Current Transaction Group is used to show the
transactions that are currently in progress, along with their
responsiveness metric.

Because many transactions last a very short time, they will
exist in this table for a very short time. Thus, polling this
table is not an effective mechanism for retrieving all
transactions.

This table is designed to allow a management station to check
on the status of long-lived transactions. Because the
apmReport and apmException mechanisms act only on transactions
that have finished, a network manager may not have visibility
for some time into the performance of long-lived transactions
such as streaming applications, large data transfers, or
(very) poorly performing transactions. In fact, by their very
definition, the apmReport and apmException mechanisms only
provide visibility into a problem after nothing can be done
about it. The apmCurrentTransactionTable provides visibility
into transactions that are currently executing and will allow
a management station to find status of long-lived
transactions.

3.2.5.  The APM Exception Group

The APM Exception Group is used to generate immediate
notifications of transactions that cross certain thresholds.
The apmExceptionTable is used to configure which thresholds
are to be checked for which types of transactions. The
apmTransactionResponsivenessAlarm notification is sent when a
transaction occurs with a responsiveness that crosses a
threshold. The apmTransactionUnsuccessfulAlarm notification is
sent when a transaction fails for which exception checking was
configured.

3.2.6.  The APM Notification Group

The APM Notification Group contains 2 notifications that are
sent when thresholds in the APM Exception Table are exceeded.






Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 10]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


4.  Definitions

APM-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN
IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE,
    NOTIFICATION-TYPE,
    Counter32, Integer32, Unsigned32             FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    TEXTUAL-CONVENTION, RowStatus, TimeStamp,
    TruthValue, DateAndTime                      FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP,
    NOTIFICATION-GROUP                           FROM SNMPv2-CONF
    SnmpAdminString                              FROM SNMP-FRAMEWORK-MIB
    rmon, OwnerString                            FROM RMON-MIB
    DataSource, protocolDirLocalIndex            FROM RMON2-MIB;

--  Application Performance Measurement MIB

apm MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "200011221500Z"  -- November 22, 2000
    ORGANIZATION "IETF RMON MIB Working Group"
    CONTACT-INFO
        "Steve Waldbusser

        Phone: +1-650-948-6500
        Fax:   +1-650-745-0671
        Email: waldbusser@nextbeacon.com"
    DESCRIPTION
        "The MIB module for measuring application performance
        as experienced by end-users. This MIB module
        augments the original RMON MIB as specified in
        RFC 1757 and the RMON2 MIB as specified in RFC 2021."

    REVISION "200011221500Z"    -- November 22, 2000
    DESCRIPTION
        "The original version of this MIB, published as RFCXXXX."
    ::= { rmon 23 }

AppLocalIndex ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    DISPLAY-HINT "255a"
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A locally arbitrary unique identifier associated with an
        application or application verb.

        All objects of type AppLocalIndex are assigned by the agent





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 11]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


        out of a common number space. In other words, AppLocalIndex
        values assigned to entries in one table must not overlap with
        AppLocalIndex values assigned to entries in another
        table. Further, every protocolDirLocalIndex value registered
        by the agent automatically assigns the same value out of the
        AppLocalIndex number space.

        For example, if the protocolDirLocalIndex values { 1, 3, 5, 7 }
        have been assigned, and the apmHttpFilterLocalIndex values
        { 6, 8, 9 } have been assigned:

            - Assignment of new AppLocalIndex values must not use the
              values { 1, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 }.
            - AppLocalIndex values { 1, 3, 5, 7 } are automatically
              assigned and are associated with the identical value of
              protocolDirLocalIndex. In particular, an entry in the
              apmAppDirectoryTable indexed by a value provides further
              information about a protocol indexed by the same value
              in the protocolDirectoryTable of RMON2.

        The value for each supported application must remain constant
        at least from one re-initialization of the entity's network
        management system to the next re-initialization, except that
        if an application is deleted and re-created, it must be
        re-created with a new value that has not been used since the
        last re-initialization.

        The specific value is meaningful only within a given SNMP
        entity. An AppLocalIndex value must not be re-used until the
        next agent restart."
    SYNTAX       Integer32 (1..2147483647)

-- The APM Application Directory Group

apmAppDirectoryTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF ApmAppDirectoryEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The APM MIB directory of applications and application
        verbs. Some of these applications are registered in the RMON2
        protocol directory, and some of them are registered in other
        tables in this MIB. Regardless of where an application is
        originally registered, it is assigned an AppLocalIndex value
        that is the primary index for this table."





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 12]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


    ::= { apm 1 }

apmAppDirectoryEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ApmAppDirectoryEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The APM MIB directory of applications and application verbs. An
        entry will exist in this table for all applications
        for which application performance measuring is supported."
    INDEX { apmAppDirectoryAppLocalIndex,
            apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessType }
    ::= { apmAppDirectoryTable 1 }

ApmAppDirectoryEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    apmAppDirectoryAppLocalIndex            AppLocalIndex,
    apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessType       INTEGER,
    apmAppDirectoryConfig                   INTEGER,
    apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessBoundary1  Integer32,
    apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessBoundary2  Integer32,
    apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessBoundary3  Integer32,
    apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessBoundary4  Integer32,
    apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessBoundary5  Integer32,
    apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessBoundary6  Integer32
}

apmAppDirectoryAppLocalIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AppLocalIndex
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The AppLocalIndex assigned for this application Directory
        entry."
    ::= { apmAppDirectoryEntry 1 }

apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                  transactionOriented(1),
                  throughputOriented(2),
                  streamingOriented(3)
                }
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "This object describes and configures the agent's support for





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 13]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


        application performance measurement for this application.
        There are 3 types of measurements for different types of
        applications:

        Transaction-Oriented applications have a fairly constant
        workload to perform for all transactions. The responsiveness
        metric for transaction-oriented applications is application
        response time (from first request to final delivery of
        service) and is measured in milliseconds. This is
        commonly referred to as end-user response time.

        Throughput-Oriented applications have widely varying workloads
        based on the nature of the client request. In particular,
        throughput-oriented applications vary widely in the amount of
        data that must be transported to satisfy the request. The
        responsiveness metric for throughput-oriented applications is
        seconds per terabit. [Ref: 2Kbps= 500 Million, 1Gbps=1000].
        The inverting of the popular bits per second is done so that
        for all responsiveness metrics, lower values are better.

        Streaming-Oriented applications deliver data at a constant
        metered rate of speed regardless of the responsiveness of the
        networking and computing infrastructure. This constant rate of
        speed is generally spec'ed to be below (sometimes well below)
        the nominal capability of the infrastructure. However, when
        the infrastructure's cannot deliver data at this speed,
        interruption of service or degradation of service can
        result. The responsiveness metric for streaming-oriented
        applications is the ratio of time that the service is degraded
        or interrupted to the total service time. This metric is
        measured in parts per million.

        Note that for some applications, measuring more than one
        responsiveness type may be interesting. For agents that wish
        to support more than one measurement for a application, they
        will populate this table with 2 entries for that application,
        one for each type."
    ::= { apmAppDirectoryEntry 2 }

apmAppDirectoryConfig OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                  notSupported(1),
                  supportedOff(2),
                  supportedOn(3)
                }





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 14]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "This object describes and configures support for application
        performance measurement for this application.  When the agent
        creates entries in this table for all applications that it
        understands, it will set the entry to notSupported(1) if it
        doesn't have the capability to measure application performance
        for this application.

        If the value of this object is notSupported(1), the agent will
        not measure application performance metrics for this
        application and shall not allow this object to be changed to
        any other value. If the value of this object is
        supportedOn(3), the agent supports measurement of application
        performance metrics for this application and is configured to
        measure such metrics for all APM MIB functions and all
        interfaces.  If the value of this object is supportedOff(2),
        the agent supports measurement of application performance for
        this application but is configured to not measure these metrics
        for any APM MIB functions or interfaces.  Whenever this value
        changes from supportedOn(3) to supportedOff(2), the agent
        shall delete all related entries in all tables in this MIB."
    ::= { apmAppDirectoryEntry 3 }

apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessBoundary1 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The boundary value between bucket1 and bucket 2. If this
        value is modified, all entries in the apmReportTable must be
        deleted."
    ::= { apmAppDirectoryEntry 4 }

apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessBoundary2 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The boundary value between bucket2 and bucket 3. If this
        value is modified, all entries in the apmReportTable must be
        deleted."
    ::= { apmAppDirectoryEntry 5 }






Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 15]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessBoundary3 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The boundary value between bucket3 and bucket 4. If this
        value is modified, all entries in the apmReportTable must be
        deleted."
    ::= { apmAppDirectoryEntry 6 }

apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessBoundary4 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The boundary value between bucket4 and bucket 5. If this
        value is modified, all entries in the apmReportTable must be
        deleted."
    ::= { apmAppDirectoryEntry 7 }

apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessBoundary5 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The boundary value between bucket5 and bucket 6. If this
        value is modified, all entries in the apmReportTable must be
        deleted."
    ::= { apmAppDirectoryEntry 8 }

apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessBoundary6 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The boundary value between bucket6 and bucket 7. If this
        value is modified, all entries in the apmReportTable must be
        deleted."
    ::= { apmAppDirectoryEntry 9 }











Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 16]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


-- APM HTTP Filter Table

-- The HTTP Filter Table creates virtual applications which measure the
-- performance of certain web pages  or sets of web pages. Some
-- circumstances where this is particularly useful are:
--
--      - An Intranet or ASP scenario where a business application is
--        running on one or more web pages or scripts.
--        (i.e. /expense/submit.cgi?employeeID=3426&...)
--      - A web-hosting scenario where one wants to measure the
--        service level for a particular customer
--      - An e-commerce scenario where the performance of certain
--        pages needs to be monitored more closely.
--        (i.e. shopping cart, shipping, credit card authorization)

apmHttpFilterTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF ApmHttpFilterEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A table that creates virtual applications which measure the
        performance of certain web pages or sets of web pages.

        Note that when entries exist in this table some HTTP
        transactions will be summarized twice: in applications
        represented here as well as the HTTP application. If entries
        in this table overlap, these transactions may be summarized
        additional times."
    ::= { apm 2 }

apmHttpFilterEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ApmHttpFilterEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A virtual application which measure the performance of certain
        web pages or sets of web pages."
    INDEX { apmHttpFilterIndex }
    ::= { apmHttpFilterTable 1 }

ApmHttpFilterEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    apmHttpFilterIndex              Integer32,
    apmHttpFilterAppLocalIndex      AppLocalIndex,
    apmHttpFilterServerProtocol     Integer32,
    apmHttpFilterServerAddress      OCTET STRING,





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 17]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


    apmHttpFilterURLPath            OCTET STRING,
    apmHttpFilterMatchType          INTEGER,
    apmHttpFilterRowStatus          RowStatus
}

apmHttpFilterIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32 (0..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "An index that uniquely identifies an entry in the
        apmHttpFilterTable."
    ::= { apmHttpFilterEntry 1 }

apmHttpFilterAppLocalIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AppLocalIndex
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The AppLocalIndex that represents HTTP transactions
        that match this entry.

        This object is read-only. A value is created by the agent from
        an unused AppLocalIndex value when this apmHttpFilterEntry is
        created."
    ::= { apmHttpFilterEntry 2 }

apmHttpFilterServerProtocol OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The protocolDirLocalIndex value of the network level protocol
        of the apmHttpFilterServerAddress."
    ::= { apmHttpFilterEntry 3 }

apmHttpFilterServerAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "This entry will only represent transactions coming from the
        network address specified in this object.

        This is represented as an octet string with





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 18]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


        specific semantics and length as identified
        by the apmNameProtocolDirLocalIndex component of the index.

        If this object is the zero-length string, then this entry will
        match the associated apmHttpFilterURL `from' address."
    ::= { apmHttpFilterEntry 4 }

apmHttpFilterURLPath OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "This entry will only represent HTTP transactions
        whose URL path component matches this value.

        Prior to the matching, the URL is stripped of any server
        address or DNS name and consists solely of the path name on
        that server.

        The value of the associated apmHttpFilterMatchType dictates
        the type of matching that will be attempted."
    ::= { apmHttpFilterEntry 5 }

apmHttpFilterMatchType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                    exact(1),
                    prefix(2)
                }
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The matching algorithm used to compare the URL pathname.

        If the value is exact(1), then the pathname component will be
        compared with the associated apmHttpFilterURLPath and
        will only be associated with this entry if it matches exactly.

        If the value is prefix(2), then the pathname component will be
        compared with the associated apmHttpFilterURLPath and will
        only be associated with this entry if the beginning of the
        pathname matches every octet of this value. Octets that extend
        beyond the length of this value are ignored."
    ::= { apmHttpFilterEntry 6 }

apmHttpFilterRowStatus OBJECT-TYPE





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 19]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


    SYNTAX      RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The status of this apmHttpFilterEntry."
    ::= { apmHttpFilterEntry 7 }

apmHttpIgnoreUnregisteredURLs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS  read-write
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "When true, this agent will only monitor URLs registered in
        the apmHttpFilterTable.

        This will be used in environments that wish to monitor only
        targeted URLs and to ignore large volumes of internet web
        browsing traffic."
    ::= { apm 3 }

apmHttp404IsFailure OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS  read-write
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "When true, this agent will recognize HTTP 404 Errors and will
        treat them as unavailable transactions. When false or when
        this object isn't supported, they will be treated as
        successful transactions.

        This object allows such error pages to be tracked at the
        possible expense of having user typo's treated as poor service
        on the part of the web server."
    ::= { apm 4 }

-- The APM User-Defined Application Table

-- Many application protocols will never be registered with a
-- standards body (and thus included in a protocol directory standard)
-- because they are custom, in-house or proprietary
-- applications. Nevertheless, implementation strategies exist for
-- monitoring the end-user experience of these applications.
--
-- This read-only table provides a means for the agent to advertise
-- which user-defined applications it is monitoring and to associate each





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 20]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


-- with an AppLocalIndex value. It is an implementation-dependent
-- matter as to how the agent learns how to monitor these
-- applications.

apmUserDefinedAppTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF ApmUserDefinedAppEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A table that advertises user-defined applications that the
        agent is measuring.

        Note that when entries exist in this table some
        transactions can be summarized more than once if there is
        overlap between applications defined here and applications
        defined in the protocol directory or in the httpFilter table."
    ::= { apm 5 }


apmUserDefinedAppEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ApmUserDefinedAppEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A user-defined application that the agent is measuring, along
        with its AppLocalIndex assignment."
    INDEX { apmUserDefinedAppLocalIndex }
    ::= { apmUserDefinedAppTable 1 }

ApmUserDefinedAppEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    apmUserDefinedAppLocalIndex     AppLocalIndex,
    apmUserDefinedAppParentIndex    Integer32,
    apmUserDefinedAppApplication    SnmpAdminString
}

apmUserDefinedAppLocalIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AppLocalIndex
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The agent-assigned AppLocalIndex value for this
        user-defined application."
    ::= { apmUserDefinedAppEntry 1 }

apmUserDefinedAppParentIndex OBJECT-TYPE





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 21]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


    SYNTAX      Integer32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The protocolDirLocalIndex value of the highest-layer
        protocol defined in the protocolDirectoryTable that this
        application is a child of."
    ::= { apmUserDefinedAppEntry 2 }

apmUserDefinedAppApplication OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SnmpAdminString
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A human readable descriptive tag for this application."
    ::= { apmUserDefinedAppEntry 3 }


































Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 22]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


-- The APM Name Table

apmNameTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF ApmNameEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A client machine may have multiple addresses during a period
        of monitoring. The apmNameTable assigns a long-lived
        identifier to a client and records what addresses were
        assigned to that client for periods of time. Various
        implementation techniques exist for tracking this mapping but
        if an agent is unable to track client address mappings, it may
        map client identifiers to client addresses rather than to
        distinct client machines.

        When available, the agent may also record the machine name
        and/or user name which may be valuable for displaying to
        humans."
    ::= { apm 6 }

apmNameEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ApmNameEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "An entry in the APM name tale. An entry exists for each
        period of time that a client has been associated with a
        particular address."
    INDEX { apmNameClientID,
            apmNameProtocolDirLocalIndex,
            apmNameClientAddress,
            apmNameMappingStartTime }
    ::= { apmNameTable 1 }

ApmNameEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    apmNameClientID                  Unsigned32,
    apmNameProtocolDirLocalIndex     Integer32,
    apmNameClientAddress             OCTET STRING,
    apmNameMappingStartTime          DateAndTime,
    apmNameMachineName               SnmpAdminString,
    apmNameUserName                  SnmpAdminString
}

apmNameClientID OBJECT-TYPE





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 23]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


    SYNTAX      Unsigned32 (0..4294967295)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
         "A unique ID assigned to the machine represented by this
         mapping. This ID is assigned by the agent using an
         implementation-specific algorithm."
    ::= { apmNameEntry 1 }

apmNameProtocolDirLocalIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The network level protocol of this client address."
    ::= { apmNameEntry 2 }

apmNameClientAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The network client address for this client when this mapping
        was active.

        This is represented as an octet string with
        specific semantics and length as identified
        by the apmNameProtocolDirLocalIndex component of the index.

        Since this object is an index variable, it is encoded in the
        index according to the index encoding rules.  For example, if
        the apmNameProtocolDirLocalIndex indicates an encapsulation of
        ip, this object is encoded as a length octet of 4, followed by
        the 4 octets of the ip address, in network byte order."
    ::= { apmNameEntry 3 }

apmNameMappingStartTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The time that the agent first discovered this mapping
        as active."
    ::= { apmNameEntry 4 }






Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 24]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


apmNameMachineName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SnmpAdminString
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The human readable name of the client machine.

        If the client has no machine name or the agent is
        unable to learn the machine name, this object will be
        a zero-length string."
    ::= { apmNameEntry 5 }

apmNameUserName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SnmpAdminString
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The human readable name of a user using the client
        machine.

        If the client has no recorded user name or the agent is
        unable to learn a user name, this object will be
        a zero-length string."
    ::= { apmNameEntry 6 }


























Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 25]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


-- The APM Report Group

apmReportControlTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF ApmReportControlEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Parameters that control the creation of a set of reports that
        aggregate application performance."
    ::= { apm 7 }

apmReportControlEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ApmReportControlEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A conceptual row in the apmReportControlTable.

        An example of the indexing of this table is
        apmReportControlDuration.3"
    INDEX { apmReportControlIndex }
    ::= { apmReportControlTable 1 }

ApmReportControlEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    apmReportControlIndex            Integer32,
    apmReportControlDataSource       DataSource,
    apmReportControlAggregationType  INTEGER,
    apmReportControlInterval         Integer32,
    apmReportControlRequestedSize    Integer32,
    apmReportControlGrantedSize      Integer32,
    apmReportControlRequestedReports Integer32,
    apmReportControlGrantedReports   Integer32,
    apmReportControlStartTime        TimeStamp,
    apmReportControlReportNumber     Integer32,
    apmReportControlInsertsDenied    Integer32,
    apmReportControlDroppedFrames    Counter32,
    apmReportControlOwner            OwnerString,
    apmReportControlStatus           RowStatus
}


apmReportControlIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32 (1..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 26]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


    DESCRIPTION
        "An index that uniquely identifies an entry in the
        apmReportControlTable.  Each such entry defines a unique
        report whose results are placed in the apmReportTable on
        behalf of this apmReportControlEntry."
    ::= { apmReportControlEntry 1 }

apmReportControlDataSource OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      DataSource
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The source of the data for APM Reports generated on
        behalf of this apmReportControlEntry.

        This object may not be modified if the associated
        apmReportControlStatus object is equal to active(1)."
    ::= { apmReportControlEntry 2 }

apmReportControlAggregationType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                 flows(1),    -- Least Aggregation
                 clients(2),
                 servers(3),
                 applications(4) -- Most Aggregation
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The type of aggregation being performed for this set of
        reports.

        The metrics for a single transaction are the responsiveness of
        the transaction and whether the transaction succeeded (a
        boolean). When such metrics are aggregated in this MIB, these
        metrics are replaced by averages and distributions of
        responsiveness and availability. The metrics describing
        aggregates are constant no matter which type of aggregation is
        being performed. These metrics may be found in the
        apmReportTable.

        The flows(1) aggregation is the simplest. All transactions
        that share common application/server/client 3-tuples are
        aggregated together, resulting in a set of metrics for all
        such unique 3-tuples.





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 27]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


        The clients(2) aggregation results in somewhat more
        aggregation (i.e. fewer resulting records). All transactions
        that share common application/client tuples are aggregated
        together, resulting in a set of metrics for all such unique
        tuples.

        The servers(3) aggregation usually results in still more
        aggregation (i.e. fewer resulting records). All transactions
        that share common application/server tuples are aggregated
        together, resulting in a set of metrics for all such unique
        tuples.

        The applications(4) aggregation results in the most
        aggregation (i.e. the fewest resulting records). All
        transactions that share a common application are aggregated
        together, resulting in a set of metrics for all such unique
        applications.

        Note that it is not meaningful to aggregate applications, as
        different applications have widely varying characteristics. As a
        result, this set of aggregations is complete.

        This object may not be modified if the associated
        apmReportControlStatus object is equal to active(1)."
    ::= { apmReportControlEntry 3 }

apmReportControlInterval OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..86400)
    UNITS      "Seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The interval in seconds over which data is accumulated before
        being aggregated into a report in the apmReportTable.  All
        reports with the same apmReportControlIndex will be based on
        the same interval.

        This object may not be modified if the associated
        apmReportControlStatus object is equal to active(1)."
    DEFVAL { 3600 }
    ::= { apmReportControlEntry 4 }

apmReportControlRequestedSize OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-create





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 28]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of entries requested to be allocated for each
        report generated on behalf of this entry."
    ::= { apmReportControlEntry 5 }

apmReportControlGrantedSize OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of entries per report the agent has allocated
        based on the requested amount in apmReportControlRequestedSize.
        Since multiple reports are saved, the total number of entries
        allocated will be this number multiplied by the value of
        apmReportControlGrantedReports, or 1 if that object doesn't
        exist.

        When the associated apmReportControlRequestedSize object is
        created or modified, the agent should set this object as
        closely to the requested value as is possible for the
        particular implementation and available resources. When
        considering resources available, the agent must consider its
        ability to allocate this many entries for all reports.

        Note that while the actual number of entries stored in the
        reports may fluctuate due to changing conditions, the agent
        must continue to have storage available to satisfy the full
        report size for all reports when necessary. Further, the agent
        must not lower this value except as a result of a set to the
        associated apmReportControlRequestedSize object."
    ::= { apmReportControlEntry 6 }

apmReportControlRequestedReports OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of saved reports requested to be allocated on
        behalf of this entry."
    ::= { apmReportControlEntry 7 }

apmReportControlGrantedReports OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 29]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of saved reports the agent has allocated
        based on the requested amount in
        apmReportControlRequestedReports. Since each report can have
        many entries, the total number of entries allocated will be
        this number multiplied by the value of
        apmReportControlGrantedSize, or 1 if that object doesn't
        exist.

        When the associated apmReportControlRequestedReports object is
        created or modified, the agent should set this object as
        closely to the requested value as is possible for the
        particular implementation and available resources. When
        considering resources available, the agent must consider its
        ability to allocate this many reports each with the number of
        entries represented by apmReportControlGrantedSize, or 1 if
        that object doesn't exist.

        Note that while the storage required for each report may
        fluctuate due to changing conditions, the agemt must continue
        to have storage available to satisfy the full report size for
        all reports when necessary. Further, the agent must not lower
        this value except as a result of a set to the associated
        apmReportControlRequestedSize object."
    ::= { apmReportControlEntry 8 }

apmReportControlStartTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value of sysUpTime when the system began processing the
        report in progress. Note that the report in progress is not
        available.

        This object may be used by the management station to figure
        out the start time for all previous reports saved for this
        apmReportControlEntry, as reports are started at fixed
        intervals."
    ::= { apmReportControlEntry 9 }

apmReportControlReportNumber OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 30]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of the report in progress. When an
        apmReportControlEntry is activated, the first report will be
        numbered zero."
    ::= { apmReportControlEntry 10 }

apmReportControlInsertsDenied OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of failed attempts to add an entry to reports for
        this apmReportControlEntry because the number of entries
        would have exceeded apmReportControlGrantedSize.

        This number is valuable in determining if enough entries have
        been allocated for reports in light of fluctuating network
        usage. Note that an entry that is denied will often be
        attempted again, this number will not predict the exact number
        of additional entries needed, but can be used to understand
        the relative magnitude of the problem.

        Also note that there is no ordering specified for the entries
        in the report, thus there are no rules for which entries will
        be omitted when not enough entries are available. As a
        consequence, the agent is not required to delete 'least
        valuable' entries first."
    ::= { apmReportControlEntry 11 }

apmReportControlDroppedFrames OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The total number of frames which were received by the agent
        and therefore not accounted for in the *StatsDropEvents, but
        for which the agent chose not to count for this entry for
        whatever reason.  Most often, this event occurs when the agent
        is out of some resources and decides to shed load from this
        collection.

        This count does not include packets that were not counted
        because they had MAC-layer errors.






Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 31]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


        Note that if the apmReportTables are inactive because no
        applications are enabled in the application directory, this
        value should be 0.

        Note that, unlike the dropEvents counter, this number is the
        exact number of frames dropped."
    ::= { apmReportControlEntry 12 }

apmReportControlOwner OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     OwnerString
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The entity that configured this entry and is
        therefore using the resources assigned to it."
    ::= { apmReportControlEntry 13 }

apmReportControlStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The status of this apmReportControlEntry.

        An entry may not exist in the active state unless all
        objects in the entry have an appropriate value.

        If this object is not equal to active(1), all
        associated entries in the apmReportTable shall be deleted
        by the agent."
    ::= { apmReportControlEntry 14 }

-- The APM Report Table

apmReportTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF ApmReportEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The data resulting from aggregated APM reports. Consult the
        definition of apmReportControlAggregationType for the
        definition of the various types of aggregations."
    ::= { apm 8 }

apmReportEntry OBJECT-TYPE





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 32]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


    SYNTAX      ApmReportEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A conceptual row in the apmReportTable.

        The apmReportControlIndex value in the index identifies the
        apmReportControlEntry on whose behalf this entry was created.
        The apmReportIndex value in the index identifies which report
        (in the series of reports) this entry is a part of.
        The protocolDirLocalIndex value in the index identifies
        the network layer protocol of the apmReportServerAddress.
        When the associated apmReportControlAggregationType value is
        equal to application(4), this value will equal 0.
        The apmReportServerAddress value in the index identifies the
        network layer address of the server in transactions aggregated
        in this entry.
        The apmReportClientID value in the index identifies the
        client in transactions aggregated in this entry. It is a
        reference to the clientID recorded in the apmNameTable.
        The apmReportResponsivenessType value in the index identifies
        the type of responsiveness metric reported by this entry and
        uniquely identifies this entry when more than one
        responsiveness metric is measured for a flow.

        An example of the indexing of this entry is
        apmReportTransactionCount.3.15.34.18.4.128.2.6.7.4.128.2.6.6.1"
    INDEX { apmReportControlIndex, apmReportIndex,
            apmReportAppLocalIndex, protocolDirLocalIndex,
            apmReportServerAddress, apmReportClientID,
            apmReportResponsivenessType }
    ::= { apmReportTable 1 }

ApmReportEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    apmReportIndex                  Integer32,
    apmReportAppLocalIndex          AppLocalIndex,
    apmReportServerAddress          OCTET STRING,
    apmReportClientID               Unsigned32,
    apmReportResponsivenessType     INTEGER,
    apmReportTransactionCount       Integer32,
    apmReportSuccessfulTransactions Integer32,
    apmReportResponsivenessMean     Integer32,
    apmReportResponsivenessMin      Integer32,
    apmReportResponsivenessMax      Integer32,
    apmReportResponsivenessB1       Integer32,





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 33]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


    apmReportResponsivenessB2       Integer32,
    apmReportResponsivenessB3       Integer32,
    apmReportResponsivenessB4       Integer32,
    apmReportResponsivenessB5       Integer32,
    apmReportResponsivenessB6       Integer32,
    apmReportResponsivenessB7       Integer32
}

apmReportIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32 (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value of apmReportControlReportNumber for the report to
        which this entry belongs."
    ::= { apmReportEntry 1 }

apmReportAppLocalIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AppLocalIndex
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The common application of the transactions aggregated
        in this entry."
    ::= { apmReportEntry 2 }

apmReportServerAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The network server address for this apmReportEntry.

        This is represented as an octet string with
        specific semantics and length as identified
        by the protocolDirLocalIndex component of the index.

        Since this object is an index variable, it is encoded in the
        index according to the index encoding rules.  For example, if
        the protocolDirLocalIndex indicates an encapsulation of ip,
        this object is encoded as a length octet of 4, followed by the
        4 octets of the ip address, in network byte order.

        If the associated apmReportControlAggregationType is equal to
        application(4) or client(2), then this object will be a null





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 34]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


        string and will be encoded simply as a length octet of 0."
    ::= { apmReportEntry 3 }

apmReportClientID OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Unsigned32 (0..4294967295)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The clientID for the client represented by this
        apmReportEntry.

        If the associated apmReportControlAggregationType is equal to
        application(4) or server(3), then this object will be set to 0."
    ::= { apmReportEntry 4 }

apmReportResponsivenessType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                    transactionOriented(1),
                    throughputOriented(2),
                    streamingOriented(3)
                }
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The type of measurement that this entry represents. Entries
        will only exist for measurements configured by the
        apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessType object."
    ::= { apmReportEntry 5 }

apmReportTransactionCount OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The total number of transactions aggregated into this record."
    ::= { apmReportEntry 6 }

apmReportSuccessfulTransactions OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The total number of successful transactions aggregated into
        this record."
    ::= { apmReportEntry 7 }





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 35]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


apmReportResponsivenessMean OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The arithmetic mean of the responsiveness metrics for all
        transactions aggregated into this record."
    ::= { apmReportEntry 8 }

apmReportResponsivenessMin OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The minimum of the responsiveness metrics for all
        transactions aggregated into this record."
    ::= { apmReportEntry 9 }

apmReportResponsivenessMax OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The maximum of the responsiveness metrics for all
        transactions aggregated into this record."
    ::= { apmReportEntry 10 }


apmReportResponsivenessB1 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of transactions aggregated into this record whose
        responsiveness was less than boundary1 value for this
        prococol."
    ::= { apmReportEntry 11 }

apmReportResponsivenessB2 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of transactions aggregated into this record whose
        responsiveness was greater than or equal to the boundary1





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 36]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


        value for this application and less than the boundary2 value for
        this application."
    ::= { apmReportEntry 12 }

apmReportResponsivenessB3 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of transactions aggregated into this record whose
        responsiveness was greater than or equal to the boundary2
        value for this application and less than the boundary3 value for
        this application."
    ::= { apmReportEntry 13 }

apmReportResponsivenessB4 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of transactions aggregated into this record whose
        responsiveness was greater than or equal to the boundary3
        value for this application and less than the boundary4 value for
        this application."
    ::= { apmReportEntry 14 }

apmReportResponsivenessB5 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of transactions aggregated into this record whose
        responsiveness was greater than or equal to the boundary4
        value for this application and less than the boundary5 value for
        this application."
    ::= { apmReportEntry 15 }

apmReportResponsivenessB6 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of transactions aggregated into this record whose
        responsiveness was greater than or equal to the boundary5
        value for this application and less than the boundary6 value for





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 37]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


        this application."
    ::= { apmReportEntry 16 }

apmReportResponsivenessB7 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of transactions aggregated into this record whose
        responsiveness was greater than or equal to the boundary6
        value for this application."
    ::= { apmReportEntry 17 }

-- APM Current Transaction Table

apmCurrentTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF ApmCurrentEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "This table contains all transactions that have been started
        but have not yet finished."
    ::= { apm 9 }

apmCurrentEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ApmCurrentEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A conceptual row in the apmCurrentTable.

        The protocolDirLocalIndex value in the index identifies
        the network layer protocol of the apmCurrentServerAddress and
        apmCurrentClientAddress.
        The apmCurrentServerAddress value in the index identifies the
        network layer address of the server in the transaction
        represented by this entry.
        The apmCurrentClientID value in the index identifies the
        client in the transaction represented by this entry.
        The apmCurrentResponsivenessType value in the index identifies
        the type of responsiveness metric reported by this entry and
        uniquely identifies this entry when more than one
        responsiveness metric is measured for a transaction.

        An example of the indexing of this entry is





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 38]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


        apmCurrentTransactionCount.34.18.4.128.2.6.7.4.128.2.6.6.23698.1"
    INDEX { apmCurrentAppLocalIndex, protocolDirLocalIndex,
            apmCurrentServerAddress, apmCurrentClientID,
            apmCurrentTransactionID,
            apmCurrentResponsivenessType }
    ::= { apmCurrentTable 1 }

ApmCurrentEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    apmCurrentAppLocalIndex          AppLocalIndex,
    apmCurrentServerAddress          OCTET STRING,
    apmCurrentClientID               Unsigned32,
    apmCurrentTransactionID          Integer32,
    apmCurrentResponsivenessType     INTEGER,
    apmCurrentResponsiveness         Integer32,
    apmCurrentSuccess                TruthValue
}

apmCurrentAppLocalIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AppLocalIndex
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The application of the transaction represented by
        in this entry."
    ::= { apmCurrentEntry 1 }

apmCurrentServerAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The network server address for this apmCurrentEntry.

        This is represented as an octet string with
        specific semantics and length as identified
        by the protocolDirLocalIndex component of the index.

        For example, if the protocolDirLocalIndex indicates an
        encapsulation of ip, this object is encoded as a length
        octet of 4, followed by the 4 octets of the ip address,
        in network byte order."
    ::= { apmCurrentEntry 2 }

apmCurrentClientID OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Unsigned32 (0..4294967295)





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 39]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The clientID for the client in this apmCurrentEntry."
    ::= { apmCurrentEntry 3 }

apmCurrentTransactionID OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32 (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A unique value for this transaction amongst other
        transactions sharing the same application layer protocol and
        server and client addresses. Implementations may choose to use
        the value of the client's source port, when possible."
    ::= { apmCurrentEntry 4 }

apmCurrentResponsivenessType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                    transactionOriented(1),
                    throughputOriented(2),
                    streamingOriented(3)
                }
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The type of measurement that this entry represents. Entries
        will only exist for measurements configured by the
        apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessType object."
    ::= { apmCurrentEntry 5 }

apmCurrentResponsiveness OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The current value of the responsiveness metric for this
        transaction.

        Note that this value may change over the lifetime of the
        transaction and it is the final value of this metric that is
        recorded as the responsiveness of the transaction for use in
        other APM MIB functions."
    ::= { apmCurrentEntry 6 }






Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 40]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


apmCurrentSuccess OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The success of this transaction up to this time. A
        transaction that has failed may exist in this table until it
        is closed. Once a transaction has been marked as failed, it
        cannot move back into the successful state."
    ::= { apmCurrentEntry 7 }

-- The APM exception table

apmExceptionTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF ApmExceptionEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "This table creates filters so that a management station can
        get immediate notification of a transaction that has had poor
        availability or responsiveness.

        Each apmExceptionEntry is associated with a particular type of
        transaction and is applied to all transactions of that
        type. Multiple apmExceptionEntries may be associated with a
        particular type of transaction. A transaction type is
        identified by value of the apmExceptionAppLocalIndex object.

        Because the quality of a transaction is not known until it is
        completed, these thresholds are only applied after the
        transaction has completed."
    ::= { apm 10 }

apmExceptionEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ApmExceptionEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A conceptual row in the apmExceptionTable."
    INDEX { apmExceptionAppLocalIndex,
            apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessType, apmExceptionIndex }
    ::= { apmExceptionTable 1 }

ApmExceptionEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    apmExceptionAppLocalIndex               AppLocalIndex,





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 41]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


    apmExceptionIndex                       Integer32,
    apmExceptionResponsivenessComparison    INTEGER,
    apmExceptionResponsivenessThreshold     Integer32,
    apmExceptionUnsuccessfulException       INTEGER,
    apmExceptionOwner                       OwnerString,
    apmExceptionStatus                      RowStatus
}

apmExceptionAppLocalIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      AppLocalIndex
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The application who'se transactions will be monitored for
        exceptions."
    ::= { apmExceptionEntry 1 }

apmExceptionIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32 (1..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "An index that uniquely identifies an entry in the
        apmExceptionTable.  Each such entry sets up thresholds for a
        particular measurement of a particular application.

        Note that even though the index of the apmExceptionTable
        contains other objects (e.g. apmExceptionAppLocalIndex) that
        may disambiguate apmExceptionEntries, no two
        apmExceptionEntries may have the same value of apmExceptionIndex."
    ::= { apmExceptionEntry 2 }

apmExceptionResponsivenessComparison OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                    none(1),
                    greater(2),
                    less(3)
                }
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "If this value is greater(2) or less(3), the associated
        apmExceptionResponsivenessThreshold will be compared to this
        value and an exception will be created if the responsiveness
        is greater than the threshold (greater(2)) or less than the





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 42]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


        threshold (less(3))."
    ::= { apmExceptionEntry 3 }

apmExceptionResponsivenessThreshold OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The threshold that responsiveness metrics are compared to."
    ::= { apmExceptionEntry 4 }

apmExceptionUnsuccessfulException OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                    off(1),
                    on(2)
                }
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "If this value is on(2), an exception will be created if a
        transaction of the associated type is unsuccessful."
    ::= { apmExceptionEntry 5 }

apmExceptionOwner OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     OwnerString
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The entity that configured this entry and is
        therefore using the resources assigned to it."
    ::= { apmExceptionEntry 6 }

apmExceptionStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The status of this apmExceptionEntry."
    ::= { apmExceptionEntry 7 }

-- APM Notifications

apmNotifications OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { apm 11 }

apmTransactionResponsivenessAlarm NOTIFICATION-TYPE





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 43]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


    OBJECTS     { apmExceptionResponsivenessThreshold,
                  apmCurrentResponsiveness }
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Notification sent when a transaction exceeds a threshold
        defined in the apmException table. The index of the
        included apmExceptionResponsivenessThreshold object identifies
        the apmExceptionEntry that specified the threshold. The
        apmCurrentResponsiveness variable identifies the actual
        transaction and its responsiveness."
    ::= { apmNotifications 1 }

apmTransactionUnsuccessfulAlarm NOTIFICATION-TYPE
    OBJECTS     { apmExceptionResponsivenessThreshold }
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Notification sent when a transaction is unsuccessful.
        The index of the included apmExceptionResponsivenessThreshold
        object identifies both the type of the transaction that caused
        this notification as well as the apmExceptionEntry that
        specified the threshold."
    ::= { apmNotifications 2 }

    rmonConformance   OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { rmon 20 }
    apmCompliances    OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { rmonConformance 11 }
    apmGroups         OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { rmonConformance 12 }


apmCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Describes the requirements for conformance to
        the APM MIB"
    MODULE  -- this module
        MANDATORY-GROUPS { apmAppDirectoryGroup, apmReportGroup }
    ::= { apmCompliances 1 }

apmAppDirectoryGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { apmAppDirectoryConfig,
              apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessBoundary1,
              apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessBoundary2,
              apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessBoundary3,
              apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessBoundary4,
              apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessBoundary5,
              apmAppDirectoryResponsivenessBoundary6,





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 44]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


              apmNameMachineName,
              apmNameUserName }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The APM MIB directory of applications and application verbs."
    ::=  { apmGroups 1 }

apmUserDefinedApplicationsGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {     apmHttpFilterAppLocalIndex,
                  apmHttpFilterServerProtocol,
                  apmHttpFilterServerAddress, apmHttpFilterURLPath,
                  apmHttpFilterMatchType, apmHttpFilterRowStatus,
                  apmHttpIgnoreUnregisteredURLs, apmHttp404IsFailure,
                  apmUserDefinedAppParentIndex,
                  apmUserDefinedAppApplication }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Objects used for creating and managing user-defined
        applications."
    ::= { apmGroups 2 }

apmReportGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { apmReportControlDataSource,
              apmReportControlAggregationType,
              apmReportControlInterval,
              apmReportControlRequestedSize,
              apmReportControlGrantedSize,
              apmReportControlRequestedReports,
              apmReportControlGrantedReports,
              apmReportControlStartTime,
              apmReportControlReportNumber,
              apmReportControlInsertsDenied,
              apmReportControlDroppedFrames,
              apmReportControlOwner,
              apmReportControlStatus,
              apmReportTransactionCount,
              apmReportSuccessfulTransactions,
              apmReportResponsivenessMean,
              apmReportResponsivenessMin,
              apmReportResponsivenessMax,
              apmReportResponsivenessB1,
              apmReportResponsivenessB2,
              apmReportResponsivenessB3,
              apmReportResponsivenessB4,
              apmReportResponsivenessB5,





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 45]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


              apmReportResponsivenessB6,
              apmReportResponsivenessB7 }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The apm report group controls the creation and retrieval of
        reports that aggregate application performance."
    ::=  { apmGroups 3 }

apmCurrentTransactionGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { apmCurrentResponsiveness,
              apmCurrentSuccess }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The apm current transaction group contains statistics for
        transactions that have not yet terminated."
    ::=  { apmGroups 4 }

apmExceptionGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { apmExceptionResponsivenessComparison,
              apmExceptionResponsivenessThreshold,
              apmExceptionUnsuccessfulException,
              apmExceptionOwner,
              apmExceptionStatus }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The apm exception group causes notifications to be sent
        whenever transactions are detected that had poor availability
        or responsiveness."
    ::=  { apmGroups 5 }

apmNotificationGroup NOTIFICATION-GROUP
    NOTIFICATIONS { apmTransactionResponsivenessAlarm,
                    apmTransactionUnsuccessfulAlarm }
    STATUS        current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Notifications sent by an APM MIB agent."
    ::= { apmGroups 6 }

END











Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 46]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


5.  Security Considerations

This MIB contains network addresses, application usage
information, and conversation statistics. Data of this nature
may be considered sensitive in some environments. In such
environments the administrator may wish to restrict SNMP
access to the agent.

There are a number of management objects defined in this MIB
that have a MAX-ACCESS clause of read-write and/or read-
create.  Such objects may be considered sensitive or
vulnerable in some network environments.  The support for SET
operations in a non-secure environment without proper
protection can have a negative effect on network operations.

SNMPv1 by itself is not a secure environment.  Even if the
network itself is secure (for example by using IPSec), even
then, there is no control as to who on the secure network is
allowed to access and GET/SET (read/change/create/delete) the
objects in this MIB.

It is recommended that the implementors consider the security
features as provided by the SNMPv3 framework.  Specifically,
the use of the User-based Security Model RFC 2574 [12] and the
View-based Access Control Model RFC 2575 [15] is recommended.

It is then a customer/user responsibility to ensure that the
SNMP entity giving access to an instance of this MIB, is
properly configured to give access to the objects only to
those principals (users) that have legitimate rights to indeed
GET or SET (change/create/delete) them.



















Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 47]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


6.  References

[1]  Harrington, D., Presuhn, R., and B. Wijnen, "An
     Architecture for Describing SNMP Management Frameworks",
     RFC 2571, April 1999.

[2]  Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Structure and
     Identification of Management Information for TCP/IP-based
     Internets", STD 16, RFC 1155, May 1990.

[3]  Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Concise MIB Definitions",
     STD 16, RFC 1212, March 1991.

[4]  Rose, M., "A Convention for Defining Traps for use with
     the SNMP", RFC 1215, March 1991.

[5]  McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J.,
     Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Structure of Management
     Information Version 2 (SMIv2)", STD 58, RFC 2578, April
     1999.

[6]  McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J.,
     Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Textual Conventions for
     SMIv2", STD 58, RFC 2579, April 1999.

[7]  McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J.,
     Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Conformance Statements for
     SMIv2", STD 58, RFC 2580, April 1999.

[8]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin,
     "Simple Network Management Protocol", STD 15, RFC 1157,
     May 1990.

[9]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser,
     "Introduction to Community-based SNMPv2", RFC 1901,
     January 1996.

[10] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser,
     "Transport Mappings for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1906, January 1996.

[11] Case, J., Harrington D., Presuhn R., and B. Wijnen,
     "Message Processing and Dispatching for the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMP)", RFC 2572, April
     1999.





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 48]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


[12] Blumenthal, U., and B. Wijnen, "User-based Security Model
     (USM) for version 3 of the Simple Network Management
     Protocol (SNMPv3)", RFC 2574, April 1999.

[13] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser,
     "Protocol Operations for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

[14] Levi, D., Meyer, P., and B. Stewart, "SNMPv3
     Applications", RFC 2573, April 1999.

[15] Wijnen, B., Presuhn, R., and K. McCloghrie, "View-based
     Access Control Model (VACM) for the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMP)", RFC 2575, April 1999.

[16] McCloghrie, K. and M. Rose, Editors, "Management
     Information Base for Network Management of TCP/IP-based
     internets: MIB-II", STD 17, RFC 1213, Hughes LAN Systems,
     Performance Systems International, March 1991.

[17] McCloghrie, K. and F. Kastenholz, "The Interfaces Group
     MIB using SMIv2", RFC 2233, Cisco Systems, FTP Software,
     November 1997.

[18] Waldbusser, S., "Remote Network Monitoring MIB", RFC
     1757, Carnegie Mellon University, February 1995.

[19] Waldbusser, S., "Token Ring Extensions to the Remote
     Network Monitoring MIB", RFC 1513, Carnegie Mellon
     University, September 1993.

[20] Waldbusser, S., "Remote Network Monitoring Management
     Information Base Version 2 using SMIv2", RFC 2021,
     International Network Services, January 1997.

[21] Waterman, R., Lahaye, B., Romascanu, D., and S.
     Waldbusser, "Remote Network Monitoring MIB Extensions for
     Switched Networks Version 1.0", RFC 2613, Allot Networks
     Inc., Xylan Corp., Lucent Technologies, June 1999.

[22] Case, J., Mundy, R., Partain, D., and B. Stewart,
     "Introduction to Version 3 of the Internet-standard
     Network Management Framework", RFC 2570, April 1999.







Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 49]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


[23] Kalbfleisch, C., Krupczak, C., Presuhn, R., and J.
     Saperia, Application Management MIB, RFC 2564 May 1999.

7.  Intellectual Property

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of
any intellectual property or other rights that might be
claimed to  pertain to the implementation or use of the
technology described in this document or the extent to which
any license under such rights might or might not be available;
neither does it represent that it has made any effort to
identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's
procedures with respect to rights in standards-track and
standards-related documentation can be found in BCP-11.
Copies of claims of rights made available for publication and
any assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result
of an attempt made to obtain a general license or permission
for the use of such proprietary rights by implementors or
users of this specification can be obtained from the IETF
Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its
attention any copyrights, patents or patent applications, or
other proprietary rights which may cover technology that may
be required to practice this standard.  Please address the
information to the IETF Executive Director.


8.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2000). All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and
furnished to others, and derivative works that comment on or
otherwise explain it or assist in its implementation may be
prepared, copied, published and distributed, in whole or in
part, without restriction of any kind, provided that the above
copyright notice and this paragraph are included on all such
copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the
copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or
other Internet organizations, except as needed for the
purpose of developing Internet standards in which case the
procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet Standards
process must be followed, or as required to translate it into





Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 50]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will
not be revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or
assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided
on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET
ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE
USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.





































Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 51]





Internet Draft              APM MIB          November 22, 2000


Table of Contents


1 Abstract ..............................................    1
2 The SNMP Management Framework .........................    2
3 Overview ..............................................    4
3.1 Report Aggregation ..................................    5
3.2 Structure of MIB ....................................    9
3.2.1 The APM Application Directory Group ...............    9
3.2.2 The APM User Defined Applications Group ...........    9
3.2.3 The APM Report Group ..............................    9
3.2.4 The APM Current Transaction Group .................   10
3.2.5 The APM Exception Group ...........................   10
3.2.6 The APM Notification Group ........................   10
4 Definitions ...........................................   11
5 Security Considerations ...............................   47
6 References ............................................   48
7 Intellectual Property .................................   50
8 Full Copyright Statement ..............................   50































Steven Waldbusser    Expires May 22, 2001            [Page 52]

