
INTERNET-DRAFT                                   Bala Rajagopalan
draft-nair-qos-based-routing-00.txt                 Bellcore 
						 Raj Nair
						    Ascom Nexen
					         June, 11, 1996
				


     Quality of Sevice (QoS)-Based Routing in the Internet - Some Issues 


Status of this Memo

   This document is an Internet Draft.  Internet Drafts are working
   documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its Areas,
   and its Working Groups. Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet Drafts.

   Internet Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
   months. Internet Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by
   other documents at any time.  It is not appropriate to use Internet
   Drafts as reference material or to cite them other than as a "working
   draft" or "work in progress."

   To learn the current status of any Internet Draft, please check the
   1id-abstracts.txt listing contained in the Internet Drafts Shadow
   Directories on ds.internic.net, nic.nordu.net, ftp.nisc.sri.com or
   munnari.oz.au.

   Distribution of this memo is unlimited.

   This Internet Draft expires December, 16, 1996.


Abstract

There are many reasons to consider QoS-based routing as a component of 
the integrated services Internet. But several questions arise with 
regard to its development: what are the requirements on QoS-based 
routing in the Internet? What sort of a routing architecture is 
practical? What are the technical and policy issues that arise in 
realizing a QoS-based Internet routing architecture? This draft is an 
attempt to generate some discussion on these topics. To this end we 
present some potential requirements on path computation, efficiency, 
robustness and scalability, and describe some issues in realizing a 
QoS-based routing architecture. Our conclusions are that QoS-based 
routing is a challenging problem, and that it may be best to address 
the intradomain, interdomain and scalability aspects separately in 
developing the routing architecture. 


1.	INTRODUCTION 

The internet is being used increasingly for transport of multimedia 
information such as image, voice and video. With the increase in 
sophistication of desktop computers, and the availability of networked 
multimedia applications, the Internet is likely to see more of this 
type of traffic. This type of usage, however, is ad-hoc in that the IP 
network architecture has been designed for "best-effort" delivery, 
without any guarantees on throughput or delay. It has been recoginzed 
that to adequately support realtime traffic flows with bandwidth and 
delay requirements, the following features should be present in the 
Internet [1]: 

- 	new service classes beyond best-effort to provide certain guarantees 
on throughput and delay to applications; 

-	a mechanism that allows applications to signal to the network their 
quality of service (QoS) requirements; and 

-	traffic management mechanisms in hosts and routers

The IETF has been working on the first two issues: defining service 
classes in addition to best-effort [1], and a resource reservation 
protocol (RSVP) [2] that applications may use to reserve network 
resources to get the level of service they desire. Traffic management 
features are also being built by router vendors. An issue being 
discussed now is whether a routing architecture that allows the dynamic 
discovery of QoS-accommodating paths in the network for data flows, in 
the presence of changes in network topology and loading, is required. 
In our opinion, without QoS-based routing, the definition of new 
service classes and signalling protocols may only be of limited use in 
supporting real-time applications. 

Our assumption is that it is not economical to overprovision network 
resources in order to obviate the need for QoS mechanisms. Under these 
circumstances, there is a justifiable need for QoS-based routing. 
First, without it, protocols like RSVP may convey the QOS requirements 
of a flow to routers, but there is no guarantee that an existing 
acceptable path between the sender and the receiver(s) will be found 
and utilized. An alternative, suggested often, is to let routers keep 
track of multiple paths and attempt flow setup by trial and error along 
these paths. This technique does not scale well with network diameter, 
and the blocking probability and setup time may be high. 

Second, economic network engineering depends on the use of an 
efficient routing scheme. For instance, with a traditional IP routing 
algorithm, a single fixed path is selected for all traffic between a 
pair of nodes. To assure the desired QoS, this path must be engineered 
to accommodate the peak traffic demand between the node pair. This 
results in the inefficient use of resources, since there may be other 
underutilized paths between the same node pair. On the other hand, a 
QoS-based routing algorithm would allow the network capacity to be 
engineered efficiently by virtue of its ability to take into account 
the current network state in making routing decisions. 

Finally, a network state-dependent routing scheme can compensate for 
imprecise network engineering. Specifically, when the traffic load 


draft-nair-qos-based-routing-00.txt                        Page 2

exceeds the engineered limits due to exceptional circumstances (e.g., 
focussed overload after failures), a QoS-based routing scheme allows 
more traffic to be routed and a more graceful performance degradation 
as compared to a state-insensitive routing scheme [4]. Indeed, these 
are the reasons for the development of state-dependent routing schemes 
for long distance phone networks [5] and ATM networks [6]. QoS-based 
routing must therefore be considered an essential component of the 
overall scheme to provide QoS guarantees to applications in the 
Internet. 

Given the need for QoS-based routing, the following questions arise: 
what are the requirements on QoS-based routing in the Internet? What 
sort of a routing architecture is practical? What are the technical and 
policy issues that arise in realizing a QoS-based Internet routing 
architecture? This draft is an attempt to generate some discussion on 
these topics. To this end, in the next section, we point out some 
potential requirements. In Sections 3 and 4, we describe some issues 
that arise in developing a QoS-based routing architecture satisfing 
these requirements. Related work is outlined in Section 5, and summary 
and conclusions are presented in Section 6. 


2.	SOME REQUIREMENTS ON QOS-BASED IP ROUTING 

The foremost issue in developing a QoS-based IP routing architecture 
is the definition of the requirements it must satisfy. Given the 
organization of the internet, the nature of the traffic, the service 
classes being considered, and the requirements of the users, there 
could be many requirements on QoS-based routing. To make a start, we 
may consider the following preliminary requirements: 

Metrics and Paths 
-----------------

-	Support for multiple path metrics (bandwidth, delay, etc.). The 
definition of the metrics would be based on the service classes defined 
by the intserv WG. 

-	The ability to dynamically determine paths satisfying multiple 
constraints (e.g., bandwidth and delay). 

-	QoS support for multiple types of flows, i.e., unicast and 
many-to-many multicast. 

Robustness 
----------

-	The ability to detect and respond to dynamically changing QoS 
capabilities of a link. 

-	The ability to continue routing in the presence of multiple, 
simultaneous failures in the network. 



draft-nair-qos-based-routing-00.txt                        Page 3

Efficiency 
----------

-	The ability to route short-lived data flows with minimal overhead. 

-	The ability to utilize network resources efficiently, through load 
spreading, global admission control techniques and the like. 

-	Minimization of routing overheads. 

-	Support for resource control, i.e., the ability to limit resource 
consumption by different classes of traffic. 

Scalability and Priority 
------------------------

-	The ability to scale to large numbers of nodes and links, and to a 
large network diameter. 

-	Support for prioritizing flows, and to permit high priority flows to 
be established with precedence over lower priority flows. 

Interdomain and Policy 
----------------------

An area that requires some thought is the requirements for 
interdomain routing. Specifically, the nature of the information that 
is exchaged at the border of two domains must be determined. If the 
information exchange is compact, the interdomain routing scheme can be 
relatively simple (Section 3.8). In any case, the ability to introduce 
policy constraints on routing information flow at the boundary between 
two organizations is required. 

Other 
-----

Other requirements, such as mobility support, may be defined. 

These are complex requirements, and a number of challenging problems 
must be solved to satisfy them. The resulting routing scheme can be 
expected to be more sophisticated than the existing internet routing 
schemes. It is, however, encouraging that recent Internet routing work, 
such as Nimrod and Source Demand Routing, has addressed scalability, 
on-demand route computation and source routing issues. The ATM Forum 
PNNI work illustrates an effort to develop a scalable, QoS-based 
routing architecture. To what extent the ideas developed under these 
efforts may be incorported in the QoS-based routing architecture for 
the Internet is a subject that requires much discussion. This draft 
does not address that question. Instead, our objective is to describe 
some of the problems that arise in realizing a QoS-based Internet 
routing architecture. 

To this end, we first consider intradomain routing, without 
scalability requirements. As a reference routing architecture for this 
case, link state routing with distributed intelligence seems to be a 
reasonable choice. To build QoS-based routing features in this 
architecture, algorithm design issues, for instance, computing "low 
cost" multicast distribution trees for flows, or efficient broadcast 


draft-nair-qos-based-routing-00.txt                Page 4

schemes for propagating QoS information must be addressed. Other 
problems that involve policy and scalability issues in the global, 
multiply administered internet may be addressed separately, once the 
requirements are determined. This approach allows us to focus on two 
distinct classes of problems that arise in realizing the QoS-based 
routing architecture for the Internet. 

Following the requirements above, the intradomain link state 
architecture should allow a router determine a feasible path for a 
given unicast flow on demand. For multicast flows with dynamic receiver 
sets, QoS-based routing should allow the dynamic, incremental 
computation of QoS-accommodating multicast trees. Under link state 
routing, each router in an autonomous system (AS) monitors the QoS 
available on each directly attached link, and its own resource 
availability. This information is broadcast to other routers in the 
AS on a periodic and/or event-driven basis. Based on the view of the 
network state, a router may determine the path for a given flow. Source 
routing, along with local and global admission control techniques may 
be used to accept or reject a flow along the path. Also, routers may 
recognize the priorities of flows (perhaps signalled via RSVP) and 
implement a mechanism to ensure a high rate of success for guaranteeing 
QoS for high priority flows. 

The issues that arise in intradomain QoS-based routing may be broadly 
classified as follows: 

-	How do routers determine the QoS capability of each outgoing link 
and reserve link resources? Note that some of these links may be 
virtual, over ATM networks. 

-	How do routers propagate the QoS knowledge to remote routers to aid 
in path selection? 

-	How are QoS-accommodating paths computed by routers for unicast 
flows? 

-	How are QoS-accommodating paths computed for multicast flows? 

-	What is the mechanism for prioritizing flows? 

-	What is the mechanism for resource control? 

-	What are the performance impacts of dealing with many short-lived 
flows (e.g., web page accesses)? 

-	How does the RSVP model fit with the QoS-based routing architecture? 

Each of these points is discussed in the next section. Scalability and 
interdomain routing issues are described briefly in Section 4. 


3.	INTRADOMAIN ROUTING ISSUES 

3.1	QoS Determination and Resource Reservation 

The integrated services working group of the IETF has concentrated on 
local resource management within routers. In particular, the notion of 
"admission control" has been introduced that allows a router to make a 


draft-nair-qos-based-routing-00.txt                     Page 5


decision as to whether a given flow may be accepted or rejected based 
on local resource availability. The admission control process 
requires knowledge of the QoS available on all links attached to a 
router. It is still an open issue, however, as to how the QoS values 
are computed for various link types such as multiple access links. The 
resolution of this issue is in the domain of the ISSLL working group. 

The intricacies of this problem may be appreciated when the case of a 
router connected to a large non-broadcast multiple access network, such 
as ATM, is considered. In this case, a router may have multiple next 
hop choices, with corresponding paths across the ATM network, each with 
possibly different QoS availability. The issues are, how does a router 
determine what the routing options are across an ATM network, what the 
QoS availability over each available route is, and what QoS value to 
advertise for the ATM link when QoS-based routing is implemented in the 
wider internet. To put this problem in perspective, the currently 
defined standards for IP routing over ATM, such as NHRP, allow the 
selection of a single exit point in the ATM network for an IP datagram. 
With QoS requirements on IP flows, there may not be an ATM path which 
accommodates the given QoS from the entry router to the exit router 
returned by NHRP. An approach like IPNNI [7] would be helpful here, 
although with some complexity. A related problem is the reservation 
of resources over a broadcast network, say an ethernet. Because access 
to the network is distributed, some coordination is required among 
routers in reserving resources. 

3.2	Knowledge Propagation 

The link state architecture requires routers to broadcast the local 
resource status (such as available link capacity, delay measurements, 
etc.) and the local topology information to all other routers in the 
AS. The broadcast of status information from one router to others might 
be an expensive process in terms of communication and processing 
overheads. So far, intradomain routing has been based on fixed link 
metrics (i.e., minimum hop, or shortest-path based on static metrics). 
In this environment, efficiency of information propagation has not been 
an issue. Thus, routing algorithms such as OSPF have used flooding with 
periodic refreshing as a means to propagate updates. Given that 
linkstate routing is essential for efficient QoS-based routing, 
flooding-type mechanisms are not suitable for information broadcasting. 
Alternative techniques to reduce broadcast overheads, such as 
tree-based forwarding, have been proposed [8]. These have to be 
implemented. In addition, link status information such as utilization 
can be volatile, i.e., their values can change significantly in a short 
period of time with the admittance of real-time flows. How should such 
information be quantized in order to reduce the update generation rate 
is an issue to be resolved. Clearly, the less accurate the information, 
the less likely that a feasible path will be found by a source router. 
On the other hand, the overheads of keeping very accurate information 
at each router may be high. Aggregation of status information reduces 
the frequency of update generation, but how it affects routing 
algorithm performance has to be determined. 

3.3	Unicast Path Computation Algorithms 

Given the availability of network state information at each router, 
how should paths be computed for unicast flows? The computation of a 
"feasible" path for a given flow is not difficult: a router just 


draft-nair-qos-based-routing-00.txt                    Page 6

eliminates all infeasible links and nodes, i.e., those that cannot 
support the requested QoS, from its local representation of the network 
topology and finds an end-to-end path in the remaining topology. But as 
studies in circuit-switched networks have shown that even in limited 
topologies this sort of "feasible-path routing" is unacceptable, i.e., 
it results in the admission of lesser number of flows into the network 
than what is possible otherwise. Moreover, as noted above, aggregation 
of link status information is usually lossy. This aggrevates the 
problem of flow blocking. 

Feasible-path routing corresponds to the notion of local admission 
control defined by the IETF's integrated services group; a flow is 
routed over a path as long as it passes the admission control criterion 
of each router along the path. While this type of admission control 
is required to control the subscription of resources at a router, it 
does not take into account any global view of resource consumption by 
individual flows. Efficiency in routing is achieved only when an 
additional layer of admission control is implemented. This higher level 
admission control procedure would consider the resource requirement 
of each flow in relation to the available resources along a path in 
order to determine whether it is profitable overall to admit the flow 
[9]. Thus, an individual flow may be rejected even if there are 
feasible paths to route it, if it is found that admitting the flow 
would result in an overall decline in the number of flows carried by 
the network. The formulation of this higher level admission control, 
with fairness to all flows desiring entry to the network, is an area 
that requires work. 

Path computation with multiple QoS constraints on a flow is a 
difficult problem. Indeed, for some combinations of QoS constraints, 
the problem is NP-complete. However, algorithms have been proposed for 
computing paths with combined bandwidth and delay constraints [10], and 
such algorithms can be incorporated in the routing scheme. 

3.4	Flow Prioritization 

Given that critical flows must be accorded higher priority than other 
types of flows, a mechanism must be implemented in the network to 
recognize flow priorities. It is assumed that RSVP can be used to 
signal the priority of a flow. There are then two aspects to 
prioritizing flows. First, there must be a policy to decide how 
different users are allowed to set priorities for flows they 
originate. The network must be able to verify that a given flow is 
allowed to claim a priority level signalled for it. Second, the routing 
scheme must ensure that a path with the requested QoS will be found for 
a flow with a probability that increases with the priority of the flow. 
In other words, for a given network load, a high priority flow should 
be more likely to get a certain QoS from the network than a lower 
priority flow requesting the same QoS. 

The policy and verification aspects are outside the scope of this 
draft. The routing mechanism for implementing flow priorities may be 
based on preemption combined with dynamic rerouting of lower priority 
flows. For example, assuming a small, fixed number of priority levels 
(e.g., 16), each router may broadcast the resources locally allocated 
to flows of each priority level. A router, when computing a path, 
first attempts to find a path that has the necessary unallocated 


draft-nair-qos-based-routing-00.txt                      Page 7

resources to support the QoS requirements of the flow. If such a path 
cannot be found, the router attempts to finds a path where adequate 
resources may be freed by displacing lower priority flows. In the end, 
a high priority flow may be routed by preempting resources allocated to 
lower priority flows. Routers may attempt to dynamically reroute 
preempted flows using the same procedure. 

Routing procedures for flow prioritization may thus be complex. 
Identification and evaluation of different procedures are areas that 
require investigation. 

3.5	Resource Control 

Given the existence of multiple service classes, it is necessary to 
engineer a network to carry the forecasted traffic demands of each 
class. To do this, a network administrator may logically partition 
router and link resources among various service classes. Strict 
partitioning, however, may result in inefficient use of network 
resources, since there may be periods of time during which there may be 
excessive traffic load under one class and light load under another. It 
is thus desirable to allow unused resources to be allotted traffic that 
needs them. This type of sharing, however, must be done in a controlled 
fashion in order to prevent traffic under some service class from 
taking up more resources than what was engineered for it for prolonged 
periods of time. This is the job of the routing scheme. This may be 
done via preemption, in a manner not contradictory to the priority 
assignment of active traffic flows. Non-preemptive dynamic resource 
sharing techniques are possible, as illustrated by the Real Time 
Network Routing architecture of the AT&T phone network [5]. The 
design of an appropriate resource sharing scheme, and its incorporation 
into the QoS-based routing scheme is a challenging issue. In 
particular, the overheads incurred by the routing scheme in the 
implementation of logical resource partitioning and dynamic sharing is 
an issue that must be studied carefully. 

3.6	Short-Lived Flows 

The QoS-based routing model incurs certain overheads during flow 
establishment, for example, computing a source route. Whether this 
overhead is disproportionate compared to the length of the sessions is 
an issue. In general, this problem arises in virtual circuit networks 
such as ATM, where many short-lived SVCs result in increased call 
set-up overheads.Even without QoS-based routing, RSVP flow 
establishment overheads are incurred for each session. An area worth 
investigation is the minimization of routing-related overheads during 
flow establishment. One approach that is useful is cacheing recently 
computed routes, so that new sessions to the same destination do not 
cause recomputation of paths. The issue of efficient flow set-up in 
general needs investigation. 

3.7	QoS-Based Routing for Multicast Flows 

Computing QoS accommodating paths for multicast flows is a tricky 
problem, especially if the notion of higher level admission control 
(Section 3.3) is included. The dynamism in the receiver set allowed by 
IP multicast also adds to the problem. In any case, routers in an AS 
must keep track of the id of subnets where group members are present, 
along with the QoS requested by them, in order to compute the 


draft-nair-qos-based-routing-00.txt                       Page 8

appropriate multicast trees. This corresponds to an enhanced MOSPF-type 
algorithm [20]. As receivers leave or join a multicast group, existing 
trees from different sources may have to be incrementally modified. 
Many such heuristic incremental algorithms are presently known 
[23-25]. Computing optimal shared trees based on the shared reservation 
style [2] may require new algorithms. Finally, scalability is an issue 
with algorithms that require knowledge of receiver sets. 

3.8	RSVP and QoS-Based Routing 

The QoS-based routing model has some implications on signalling. 
Specifically, under this routing model, the QoS desired for a flow must 
be specified before a path can be computed. In contrast, under RSVP, a 
path must exist before a reservation can be made. RSVP utilizes PATH 
messages to notify the receivers of a session and the traffic 
characteristics at the sender, and to establish the flow's path state 
in the routers. With QoS-based routing, the latter function is not 
useful since the flow path is computed based only on the receivers' 
reservation. Using the current RSVP model with QoS-based routing, a 
unicast flow establishment would require a PATH message sent from the 
source to the receiver along a best effort path, say, and a RESERVE 
message sent over a QoS-accommodating flow computed by a router close 
to the receiver. 

With regard to multicast flows, the path for a multicast flow under 
the current RSVP specifications is the IP multicast tree of the source. 
To receive a flow, a host must first join the multicast group, and 
hence the multicast tree for a given source. To request a certain QoS 
for the flow, each receiver must send a RESERVE message towards the 
root of the tree, reserving link and router resources enroute. The 
set of receivers of a multicast flow is dynamic, and transparent to 
the source of the flow. The multicast routing protocol dynamically 
maintains a tree per source, in which the leaves are the current set of 
receivers. This protocol establishes the multicast tree independently 
of the QoS requirements of flows subsequently routed over it. Thus, 
there is no guarantee that a leaf would be successful in reserving 
the resources to get the desired QoS. 

One solution for QoS-based multicast routing is to separate RSVP PATH 
message flow and actual data flow from a source. Thus, a basic 
multicast routing protocol would provide a tree for delivering PATH 
messages to any receiver joining the group. The reception of a RESERVE 
message by a router would trigger an algorithm to (incrementally) 
compute a new tree for the data flow, i.e., addition/deletion of 
branches to the existing tree, as discussed in the previous section. 


4.	SCALING AND INTERDOMAIN ROUTING 

4.1	Scaling by Hierarchical Aggregation 

A scalable intradomain routing architecture is needed to handle the 
thousands of nodes that may exist within an AS. Scaling by hierarchical 
aggregation is a common techique, as exemplified by the ATM Forum PNNI 
routing scheme [12]. Hierarchical aggregation, however, introduces 
problems with regard to the accuracy of the aggregated state 
information [13]. Also, the aggregation of paths under multiple 
constraints is difficult. One of the difficulties is the risk of 


draft-nair-qos-based-routing-00.txt                       Page 9

accepting a flow based on inaccurate information, but not being able to 
support the QoS requirements of flow because the capabilities of the 
actual paths that are aggregated are not known at the source. Much 
study is needed to understand and characterize the performance impacts 
of aggregating path metric information. Meanwhile, a way to compensate 
for inaccuracies is to use crankback, i.e., dynamic search for 
alternate paths as a flow is being routed. Crankback, however, 
increases the time to set up a flow, and also results in overall poor 
utilization of resources. Thus, crankback is the mechanism of last 
resort, and the minimization of its use is a problem that requires 
work. 

4.2	Interdomain Routing 

Many issues arise when multiple ASs, each implementing QoS-based 
routing within their networks, interface. Efficient end-to-end 
QoS-based routing across multiple ASs require some exchange of 
information between them, but individual ASs may not wish to reveal 
too much information. For instance, it may not be possible or 
desirable for an AS to reveal internal topology information to others. 
Also, even if there are no policy constraints on exporting information, 
overall scalability of the internet routing architecture may not allow 
this. Thus, the issue is what (minimal) information should be exchanged 
between different autonomous systems to implement end-to-end QoS-based 
routing? 

It is desirable that information flow across ASs should be much more 
abridged than what flows inside an AS. For example, fairly stable QoS 
information applicable to the entire network may be advertised. This 
means that an AS should engineer its network carefully to ensure that 
it can meet the QoS advertised. Compact information flow may allow the 
implementation of QoS-based routing through enhanced versions of 
traditional interdomain protocols such as BGP. 

The precise definition of an interdomain routing architecture, which 
accommodates QoS and also aids in establishing routing policies is an 
area that requires work. The scalability of any proposed architecture 
must be evaluated, along with its efficiency in large configurations. 
Finally, interdomain QoS-based multicast routing is a challenging 
problem. 


5.	PROGNOSIS AND RELATED WORK 

QoS-based routing in the Internet is indeed a daunting problem. To 
make some progress in this area, it may be necessary to make a modest 
beginning and concentrate on a intradomain routing protocol, say, a 
QoS-enhanced version of OSPF. Scalability via hierarhical aggregation, 
in our opininon, is problem that can be separately tackled. Similarly, 
interdomain routing is also an orthogonal issue. At the intradomain 
level, the development of a routing scheme incorporating some of the 
basic requirements outlined in this draft is achievable. Indeed, 
commercially available proprietary routing solutions for frame relay 
and ATM networks from vendors such as Cascade, FORE, Stratacom and 
others demonstrate many of the desirable QoS-based routing features. 
The following is a summary of related work in various areas, and the 
missing pieces. 


draft-nair-qos-based-routing-00.txt                     Page 10

5.1	IP Routing Schemes 

Among intradomain routing schemes, OSPF [3] is a link state routing 
protocol, utilizing distributed state information. Under OSPF, 
network topology, as well as an administratively configurable metric 
for each link are propagated throughout the network using flooding. 
Each node has its own view of the network state, and a shortest path 
algorithm is used to compute the destination-based routing table. OSPF 
allows the definition of a two-level routing hierarchy, and hence a 
good degree of scaling. As compared to OSPF, a link state QoS-based 
routing requires the dynamic distribution of link and nodal state 
information, as the corresponding resource availability changes. For 
scaling purposes, this would require a tree-based update propagation 
scheme instead of flooding. Also, instead of destination-based 
routing tables, a QoS-based routing scheme would use on-demand path 
computation during flow establishment. This places an overhead on 
routers, and efficient schemes have to be designed to minimize this 
overhead. Finally, source routing, at least for flow establishment, has 
to be used instead of destination oriented next hop forwarding. Some 
state information will also be maintained by routers about each flow. 

Interdomain routing protocols, such as BGP [14], primarily focus on 
the control of information flow between administratively distinct 
routing domains. As such, they do not maintain fine state information 
about routing domains. Rather, topological reachability of domains, 
subject to user-defined preferences for alternate route selection, is 
the goal. Thus, BGP uses an enhanced distance-vector routing scheme 
(called, path vector [15]), with destination-oriented hop by hop 
forwarding. QoS-enhanced BGP requires work. 

Among the newer approaches, Source Demand Routing (SDR) [16] allows 
on-demand path computation by routers and the implementation of 
strict and loose source source routing. The SDR approach can be used 
for both intradomain and interdomain source routing. The Nimrod 
architecture [17] has a number of concepts built in to handle 
scalability and specialized path computation. These are applicable in 
addressing the relevant aspects of QoS-based routing. 

5.2	Internet Multicasting 

IP multicasting is mainly concerned with establishing multicast trees 
subject to changes in topology and receiver group membership [18]. IP 
multicast schemes utilize the underlying unicast routing protocols to 
establish the multicast trees. For example, the Multicast OSPF (MOSPF) 
[19] works with OSPF. As with QoS-enhanced OSPF, it is possible to 
consider a QoS-accommodating MOSPF. 

More recent multicast routing protocols, such as Core-Based Trees 
[20], and Protocol-Independent Multicast [21] do not rely on specific 
types of unicast routing schemes. They may need extensive revision to 
accommodate QoS. The MOSPF mode of operation is in fact more suitable 
for QoS-based multicast routing, since it is possible to tap the 
networkwide QoS status from the underlying link state routing scheme. 
Given the availability of QoS information, many heuristic algorithms to 
compute multicast trees are known [22-24]. The incorporation of flow 
aggregation and the sharing of multicast trees by several sources, as 
defined under RS-VP, into these algorithms requires work. 


draft-nair-qos-based-routing-00.txt                       Page 11

5.3	ATM Routing 

The ATM PNNI routing scheme [12] is a hierarchical link state 
QoS-based routing scheme. It incorporates mechanisms for QoS-based path 
computation and scalability, but it does not address some of the 
problems outlined earlier: routing of many-to-many multicast flows of 
the type required by RSVP; interdomain policy routing issues; QoS 
measurements on shared links; global admission control; flow 
prioritization; efficient broadcast of state information; and 
performance issues. 

There has recently been some work on SVC routing schemes for ATM 
networks. This research illustrates various approaches to achieving 
higher throughput from routing schemes, as compared to single path 
shortest-path routing. The flows considered usually have a single QoS 
requirement, i.e., bandwidth. The following is a sampling of work in 
this area. In [25], Sibal and Desimone describe a routing strategy for 
multihop networks, modelled after the reservation-based alternate 
routing strategy for two-hop phone networks [26]. This generalized 
algorithm is based on distance vector routing, and allows only a 
single bandwidth value for all flows. It also assumes that the input 
traffic distribution is known apriori. In [27], Bahk and Zarki analyze 
the throughput performance of several heuristic algorithms for 
QoS-based routing. These algorithms are simple variants of 
shortest-path, and some of them require coarse link state information. 
Mitra, Morrison and Ramakrishnan present a scheme for optimal network 
design [6] that assumes centralized routing and a small number of 
bandwidth classes. Also, input traffic is assumed to have certain 
characteristics. Gawlick, Kalmanek and Ramakrishnan present an 
on-demand routing scheme for PVCs [28] and show its superiority over 
shortestpath. This algorithm too is centralized. Finally, Ahmadi, Chen 
and Guerin present a routing and admission control heuristic algorithm, 
again with better performance than shortest-path [9]. 

The contributions of prior research in this area is of significant 
importance, lending some insights into unicast path computation 
procedures. The practical aspects of routing, such as overhead 
reduction, and efficiency under a mix of traffic and information 
aggregation, scalability, etc., have not been investigated thoroughly. 
The definition of a practical IP QoS-based routing architecture, and 
its implementation, requires new work as outlined in this draft. 


6.	SUMMARY AND CONCLUSIONS 

There are many reasons to consider QoS-based routing as an essential 
component of the overall integrated services Internet infrastructure. 
The first step in developing a QoS-based routing architecture is the 
specification of its requirements. In particular, the requirements for 
interdomain routing need much discussion. In this draft, we presented 
some potential requirements on path computation, efficiency, robustness 
and scalability, and described some issues in realizing a QoS-based 
routing architecture. Given that QoS-based routing is a challenging 
problem, it may be best to consider the intradomain, interdomain and 
scalability aspects separately. 



draft-nair-qos-based-routing-00.txt                       Page 12

REFERENCES 
 

1.	R. Braden, D. Clark, and S. Shenker, "Integrated Services in the 
Internet Architecture: An Overview," RFC 1633, July, 1994. 

2.	L. Zhang, S. E. Deering, D. Estrin, S. Shenker and D. Zappala, 
"RSVP: A New Resource Reservation Protocol," Technical Report 95-607, 
ISI, University of Southern California, 1995. 

3.	J. Moy, "OSPF Version 2," RFC 1583, March, 1994. 

4.	J. M. Akinpelu, "The Overload Performance of Engineered Networks 
with Non-Hierarchical Routing," AT&T Technical Journal, Vol. 63, pp. 
1261-1281, 1984. 

5.	G. R. Ash, J. S. Chen, A. E. Frey and B. D. Huang, "RealTime 
Network Routing in a Dynamic Class-of-Service Network," Proceedings of 
ITC 13, 1992. 

6.	D. Mitra, J. Morrison, and K. G. Ramakrishnan, "ATM Network Design 
and Optimization: A Multirate Loss Network Framework," Proceedings of 
IEEE INFOCOM `96, 1996. 

7.	R.Callon et al, "Issues and Approaches for Integrated PNNI" ATM 
Forum 96-0355, April 1996. 

8.	B. Rajagopalan, "Efficient Link State Routing," Unpublished Report, 
available from the author, braja@bellcore.com. 

9.	H. Ahmadi, J. Chen, and R. Guerin, "Dynamic Routing and Call 
Control in High-Speed Integrated Networks," Proceedings of ITC-13, pp. 
397-403, 1992. 

10.	Z. Wang and J. Crowcroft, "QoS Routing for Supporting Resource 
Reservation," available at http:// 
boom.cs.ucl.ac.uk/staff/zwang/pub.htm. 

11.	R. G. Moskowitz, "Why in the World is the Web So Slow?," Network 
Computing, March, 15, 1996. 

12.	ATM Forum PNNI subworking group, "Private Network - Network 
Specification Interface v1.0 (PNNI 1.0)", afpnni-0055.00, March 1996. 

13. 	W. C. Lee, "Topology Aggregation for Hierarchical Routing in ATM
Networks," ACM SIGCOMM Computer Communication Review, 1995.	

14.	Y. Rekhter and T. Li, "A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4)," 
Internet Draft, September, 1992. 

15.	B. Rajagopalan and M. Faiman, "A Responsive Distributed Algorithm 
for Shortest-Path Routing within Autonomous Systems," Journal of 
Internetworking Research, pp. 51-69, March, 1991. 

16.	D. Estrin, T. Li, Y. Rekhter, K. Varadhan, and D. Zappala, "Source 
Demand Routing: Packet Format and Forwarding Specification (Version 
1)," RFC 1940, May, 1996. 


draft-nair-qos-based-routing-00.txt                     Page 13


17.	I. Castineyra, J. N. Chiappa, and M. Steenstrup, "The Nimrod 
Routing Architecture," Internet Draft, 
draft-ietfnimrod-routing-arch-01.txt, Febrauary, 1996. 

18.	S. E. Deering and D. P. Cheriton, "Multicast Routing in Datagram 
Internetworks and Extended LANs," ACM Transactions on Computer Systems, 
pp. 85-110, May, 1990. 

19.	J. Moy, "MOSPF: Analysis and Experience," RFC 1585, March, 1994. 

20.	A. Ballardie, J. Crowcroft and P. Francis, "Core-Based Trees: A 
Scalable Multicast Routing Protocol," Proceedings of SIGCOMM `94. 

21.	S. E. Deering, D. Estrin, D. Farinnacci, V. Jacobson, C-G. Liu, 
and L. Wei, "An Architecture for Wide-Area Multicast Routing," 
Technical Report, 94-565, ISI, University of Southern California, 1994. 

22.	B. M. Waxman, "Routing of Multipoint Connections," IEEE JSAC, pp. 
1617-1622, December, 1988. 

23.	X. Jiang, "Path Finding Algorithms for Broadband Multicast," in 
High Speed Networking, III, Elsevier Science Publishers, 1991. 

24.	C-H. Chow, "On Multicast Path Finding Algorithms," Proceedings of 
the IEEE INFOCOM `91, pp. 1274-1283, 1991. 

25.	S. Sibal and A. Desimone, "Controlling Alternate Routing in 
General-Mesh Packet Flow Networks," Proceedings of ACM SIGCOMM `95, 
1995. 

26.	D. Mitra and J. B. Seery, "Comparative Evaluations of Randomized 
and Dynamic Routing Strategies for CircuitSwitched Networks," IEEE 
Trans. on Communications, pp. 102-116, January, 1991. 

27.	S. Bahk and M. El Zarki, "Dynamic Multi-Path Routing and How it 
Compares with Other Dynamic Routing Algorithms for High Speed Wide Area 
Networks," Proceedings of SIGCOMM `92, pp. 53-64, 1992. 

28.	R. Gawlick, C. R. Kalmanek, and K. G. Ramakrishnan, "On-Line 
Routing of Permanent Virtual Circuits," Computer Communications, March, 
1996. 

AUTHORS' ADDRESSES

   Bala Rajagopalan                            Raj Nair
   Bellcore                                    Ascom Nexen
   445 South Street, Rm 1A-257B		       289 Great Rd.	
   Morristown, NJ 07960                        Acton, MA 01720
   U.S.A                                       U.S.A

   Ph: +1-201-829-4261                         Ph: +1-508-266-4536 
   Email: braja@bellcore.com                   Email: nair@nexen.com


draft-nair-qos-based-routing-00.txt (Expires 12/16/96)        Page 14
