
                                                 Sharon Chisholm
Internet Draft                                   Nortel Networks
                                                 Steve Waldbusser
Document: draft-chisholm-snmp-infomode-01.txt
Expires: June 2004                               December 2003



                        The SNMP Information Model


Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with 
all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026 [ ]. 

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering 
Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that      
other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months 
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any 
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference 
material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
     http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt
The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
     http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.


Abstract

This memo attempts to capture the de facto information model of SNMP 
MIBs.

Conventions used in this document

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", 
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this 
document are to be interpreted as described in RFC-2119 [ ].

Table of Contents

1. The Internet-Standard Management Framework	2
2. The SNMP Information Model	2
2.1 Introduction	2
2.2 Relationships between MIB Tables	3
2.3 The Core Models	3
2.3.1	The System	3
2.3.2	Physical Entities	4
2.3.3	Interfaces	5
2.3.4	IP	6
2.3.5	Applications	7
3. Security Considerations	7
4. Authors' Address	7
5. References	8
5.1 Normative	8
5.2 Informative References	9
6. Full Copyright Statement	9


1. The Internet-Standard Management Framework

For a detailed overview of the documents that describe the current
Internet-Standard Management Framework, please refer to section 7 of 
RFC 3410 [RFC3410].

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed 
the Management Information Base or MIB.  MIB objects are generally 
accessed through the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP). 
Objects in the MIB are defined using the mechanisms defined in the 
Structure of Management Information (SMI).  This memo specifies a MIB 
module that is compliant to the SMIv2, which is described in STD 58, 
RFC 2578 [RFC2578], STD 58, RFC 2579 [RFC2579] and STD 58, RFC 2580


2. The SNMP Information Model


2.1 Introduction

An information model consists of three components: the objects, the 
attributes of the objects and its relationship with other objects. An 
information model can be thought of as a higher level of abstraction 
that either be used to create data models such as MIBs, or can be 
abstracted from existing definitions. This memo attempts to do the 
latter.

The motivation for capturing the de facto information model that has 
been used in SNMP MIBs is to increase awareness of the model. Lack of 
awareness of the de facto information model used in SNMP MIBs can 
lead to poor design choices, which in turn can increase the costs or 
in some cases prevent the use of the MIBs in management solutions.

2.2  Relationships between MIB Tables

While information in MIBs is organized into groups and tables, the 
definition of the group or table usually does not provide a direct 
mapping to the abstract object whose attributes are being captured. 
In practice, the definition of all attributes of an abstract object 
may span several tables and may even be spit between different MIB 
modules.

Information in a table can be related to that in another table in a 
number of ways. While there isn't one single design pattern that has 
been used in designing MIBs, there are some general patterns that can 
be used as the starting point for abstracting out the SNMP 
Information Model.

If a table shares an index with or is an augmentation of another 
table, and for each row in the first table there is a corresponding 
row in the second, then both of these tables can be considered to be 
defining attributes of the same object.

If a table shares an index, or a copy of an index with another table 
and there are only rows in the second table for a subset of the rows 
in the first table, the second table can be thought of as a 
specialization of the general object whose attributes were defined in 
the first. This is often referred to as a sparse augmentation.

Another common relationship is where an attribute in one table 
contains the index values of another table with different indexing. 
These tables are either defining attributes for different objects 
that are related or providing a mapping between attributes of the 
same object, but that are referenced in different ways.

2.3 The Core Models

2.3.1	 The System

A system consists of a collection of physical and logical components 
that will be managed as a single managed entity. It consists of the 
objects within the SystemGroup [RFC3418] as well as the objects 
defined in all other MIBs supported on the managed entity.

                       +-----------------+
                       |System           |
                       +-----------------|
                       |-----------------|
                       +-----------------+
                       |                 |
                       +-----------------+
                                |
                               _ |
                                 |
                   --------------|---------------------
                   |  0..*       |                     | 0..*
          +-----------------+    |            +-----------------+
          |Physical Entity  |    |            |Application      |
          +-----------------|    |            +-----------------|
          |-----------------|    |            |-----------------|
          +-----------------+    |            +-----------------+
          |                 |    |            |                 |
          +-----------------+    |            +-----------------+
                                 |
                                 | 0..*
                       +-----------------+
                       |Interface        |
                       +-----------------|
                       |-----------------|
                       +-----------------+
                       |  ->Interface    |
                       |  ->Interface    |
                       +-----------------+


2.3.2	 Physical Entities

Physical entities can be thought of as a generalized object whose 
base attributes are defined in the Entity MIB[RFC2737]. 
Specializations of the physical entity include chassis, backplane, 
container, powerSupply, fan, sensor, module, port, and stack, as 
indicated by entPhysicalClass and the existence of sparsely augmented 
physical entity tables.

The relationship between the interfaces and their physical entity is 
indicated by the entAliasMappingIdentifier[RFC2737], which is 
applicable only to port specializations.


                       +-----------------+
                       |PhysicalEntity   |
                       +-----------------|
                       |-----------------|
                       +-----------------+
                       |                 |
                       +-------*---------+
     +------------+           / \
     |Chassis     |          /   \
     +------------+         /--+--\             +------------+
     +------------+            |                |Fan         |
     +------------+            |                +------------+
     |            |            |                +------------+
     |            +------------+                +------------+
     +------------+            +----------------+            |
                               |                |            |
     +------------+            |                +------------+
     |Backplane   +------------|
     +------------+            |
     +------------+            |               +------------+
     +------------+            |               |Sensor      |
     |            |            |               +------------+
     |            |            |               +------------+
     --------------            |               +------------+
                               |---------------+            |
     +------------+            |               |            |
     |Container   +------------+               +------------+
     +------------+            |
     +------------+            |
     +------------+            |
     |            |            |                +------------+
     |            |            +----------------+Module      |
     +------------+            |                +------------+
                       +-------+------------+   +------------+
                       |       |            |   +------------+
     +------------+    |   +---+--------+   |   |            |
     |powerSupply +----+   |Port        |   |   |            |
     +------------+        +------------+   |   +------------+
     +------------+        +------------+   |
     +------------+        +------------+   |
     |            |        |            |   |    +------------+
     |            |        |->Interface |   +----+Stack       |
     +------------+        +------------+        +------------+
                                                 +------------+
                                                 +------------+
                                                 |            |
                                                 |            |
                                                 +------------+

2.3.3	 Interfaces

An interface can be thought of us a generalized object whose base 
attributes are defined in the Interfaces MIB [RFC2863].  
Specializations of the interface include ATM, Frame Relay Services, 
SONET/SDH and other as indicated by the ifType and the existence of 
sparsely augmented interface tables.

The base interface attributes are defined in the ifTable and 
ifXTable. The layering relationship between interfaces is defined in 
the ifStack table.

                                             +--------------+
                                             | Port         |
                                             +--------------+
                +---------------+            +--------------+
                | Interface     |/           +--------------+
                |               *------------+ ->Interface  |
                +---------------+\           +--------------+
                +---------------+
              |\+---------------+
         -----+/X ->Interface   |
        |     / | ->Interface   |
        |       |               |
        |       +--/*\------/\--+
        |         /   \    --+-
        |         --+--      |
    +---+--------+  |  +----++---+
    |SonetSdh    |  |  +ATM      +
    +------------+  |  +---------+
    +------------+  |  +---------+
    +------------+  |  +---------+
    |            |  |  |         |
    +------------+  |  +---------+
                    |
                    |
                    |
          +---------+-----------+
          | FrameRelayServices  |
          +---------------------+
          +---------------------+
          +---------------------+
          |                     |
          |                     |
          +---------------------+

2.3.4	 IP

A local IP address is associated with an interface via 
ipAddEntIfIndex [RFC2011]. Note that not all interfaces have Ip 
Address.

An IP route is associated with an interface via either the 
ipCidrRouteIfIndex [RFC2096] or the ipROuteIfIndex [RFC1213], 
depending on which version of the route table used.

UDP and TCP Connections are associated with local IP Addresses via 
udpLocalAddress [RFC2013] and tcpConnLocalAddress [RFC2012], 
respectively.


        +---------------+            
        | Interface     |          
        |               |
        +---------------+        
        +---------------+                         +----------------+
        +---------------+                         |UDPConnection   |
        | ->Interface   |/    +---------------+   +----------------+
        | ->Interface   *-----+LocalIpAddress |   +----------------+
        |               |\    +---------------+/  +----------------+
        +-----/X\--------     +---------------*---+->LocalIpAddress|
             / | \            +---------------+\  +----------------+
               |              |->Interface    |
               |              +--------/*\- --+   +----------------+
               |                      / | \       |TCP Connection  |
               |                        +---------+----------------+
               |                                  +----------------+
               |                                  +----------------+
               |              +---------------+   |->LocalIpAddress|
               +--------------+ IpRoute       |   +----------------+
                              +---------------+
                              +---------------+
                              +---------------+
                              |               |
                              |->Interface    |
                              +---------------+


2.3.5	 Applications

This section will be addressed in an update to this memo.
 
3. Security Considerations

There are no additional security considerations other than those 
normally associated with the use of SNMP.

4.  Authors' Address

 Sharon Chisholm
 Nortel Networks
 PO Box 3511, Station C
 Ottawa, Ontario, K1Y 4H7
 Canada
 Email: schishol@nortelnetworks.com

 Steven Waldbusser 
 waldbusser@nextbeacon.com


5. References

5.1 Normative

  [RFC1213] Rose, M, McCloghrie, K., "Management Information Base
            for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets",
            RFC 1213, March 1991

  [RFC2011] McCloghrie, K., "SNMPv2 Management Information Base for
            the Internet Protocol using SMIv2", RFC 2011,
            November 1996.

  [RFC2012] McCloghrie, K., "SNMPv2 Management Information Base
            for the Transmission Control Protocol using SMIv2",
            RFC 2012, November 1996.

  [RFC2013] McCloghrie, K., "SNMPv2 Management Information Base
            for the User Datagram Protocol using SMIv2",
            RFC 2013, November 1996.

  [RFC2096] Baker, F., "IP Forwarding Table MIB" RFC 2096, January
            1997.

  [RFC2578] McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J.,
            Rose, M. and S. Waldbusser, "Structure of Management
            Information Version 2 (SMIv2)", STD 58, RFC 2578, April
            1999.

  [RFC2579] McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J.,
            Rose, M. and S. Waldbusser, "Textual Conventions for
            SMIv2", STD 58, RFC 2579, April 1999.

  [RFC2580] McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J.,
            Rose, M. and S. Waldbusser, "Conformance Statements for
            SMIv2", STD 58, RFC 2580, April 1999.

  [RFC2737] McCloghrie, K., Bierman, A., "Entity MIB (Version 2)",
            December 1999.

  [RFC2863] McCloghrie, K., Kastenholz F.,?The Interfaces Group MIB?,
            RFC 2862, June 2000

  [RFC3418] Presuhn, R., ?Management Information Base (MIB) for the
            Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP).?, RFC 3418, 
            December 2002  


5.2  Informative References

  [RFC3410] Case, J., Mundy, R., Partain, D. and B. Stewart,
            "Introduction and Applicability Statements for Internet-
            Standard Management Framework", RFC 3410, December 2002.

6.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2003). All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to 
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it 
or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published 
and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any 
kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are 
included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this 
document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing 
the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other 
Internet organizations, except as needed for the  purpose of 
developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for 
copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be 
followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than 
English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be 
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an 
"AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING 
TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING 
BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION 
HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

