 



Network Working Group                                                   
INTERNET-DRAFT                                              M.Venkatesan
Intended Status: Standards Track                               Dell Inc.
Expires: June 17, 2015                                 Kannan KV Sampath
                                                                  Redeem
                                                           Sam K. Aldrin
                                                     Huawei Technologies
                                                        Thomas D. Nadeau
                                                                 Brocade

                                                       December 14, 2014


  MPLS-TP Traffic Engineering (TE) Management Information Base (MIB)
                    draft-ietf-mpls-tp-te-mib-10.txt


Abstract

   This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB)
   for use with network management protocols in the Internet community.
   In particular, it describes additional managed objects and textual
   conventions for Tunnels, Identifiers and Label Switching Router to
   support Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) MIB modules for
   transport networks.

Status of this Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted to IETF in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt.

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

   This Internet-Draft will expire on June 17, 2015.
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                  [Page 1]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


Copyright and License Notice

   Copyright (c) 2014 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors. All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document. Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.
Table of Contents

   1. Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
   2. The Internet-Standard Management Framework  . . . . . . . . . .  5
   3. Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
     3.1. Conventions used in this document . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
     3.2. Terminology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
     3.3. Acronyms  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
   4. Motivations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
   5. Feature List  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
   6. Outline . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
     6.1 MIB Module Extensions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
       6.1.1 Summary of MIB Module changes  . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
     6.2 MPLS-TE-EXT-STD-MIB  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
       6.2.1 mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
       6.2.2 mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapTable  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
       6.2.3 mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapTable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
       6.2.4 mplsTunnelExtTable . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
     6.3 MPLS-TC-EXT-STD-MIB  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
     6.4 MPLS-ID-STD-MIB  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
     6.5 MPLS-LSR-EXT-STD-MIB . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
     6.6 The Use of RowPointer  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
   7. MIB Modules Interdependencies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
   8. Dependencies between MIB Module Tables  . . . . . . . . . . . . 13
   9. Example of MPLS-TP Tunnel Setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
     9.1. Example of MPLS-TP static co-routed bidirectional tunnel 
          setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
       9.1.1. mplsTunnelEntry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15
       9.1.2. mplsTunnelExtEntry  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
       9.1.3. Forward direction mplsOutSegmentEntry . . . . . . . . . 16
       9.1.4. Reverse direction mplsInSegmentEntry  . . . . . . . . . 16
       9.1.5. Forward direction mplsXCEntry . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
       9.1.6. Reverse direction mplsXCEntry . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17
       9.1.7. Forward direction mplsXCExtEntry  . . . . . . . . . . . 18
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                  [Page 2]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


       9.1.8. Reverse direction mplsXCExtEntry  . . . . . . . . . . . 18
     9.2. Example of MPLS-TP static associated bidirectional tunnel
          setup . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
       9.2.1. Forward direction mplsTunnelEntry . . . . . . . . . . . 18
       9.2.2. Forward direction mplsTunnelExtEntry  . . . . . . . . . 19
       9.2.3. Forward direction mplsOutSegmentTable . . . . . . . . . 19
       9.2.4. Forward direction mplsXCEntry . . . . . . . . . . . . . 20
       9.2.5. Forward direction mplsXCExtEntry  . . . . . . . . . . . 20
       9.2.6. Reverse direction mplsTunnelEntry . . . . . . . . . . . 20
       9.2.7. Reverse direction mplsTunnelExtEntry  . . . . . . . . . 21
       9.2.8. Reverse direction mplsInSegmentEntry  . . . . . . . . . 21
       9.2.9. Reverse direction mplsXCEntry . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
       9.2.10. Reverse direction mplsXCExtEntry . . . . . . . . . . . 22
     9.3. Example of MPLS-TP signaled co-routed bidirectional
          tunnel setup  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
       9.3.1. mplsTunnelEntry . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
       9.3.2. mplsTunnelExtEntry  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
       9.3.3. Forward direction mplsOutSegmentEntry . . . . . . . . . 24
       9.3.4. Reverse direction mplsInSegmentEntry  . . . . . . . . . 24
       9.3.5. Forward direction mplsXCEntry . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
       9.3.6. Reverse direction mplsXCEntry . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
       9.3.7. Forward direction mplsXCExtEntry  . . . . . . . . . . . 24
       9.3.8. Reverse direction mplsXCExtEntry  . . . . . . . . . . . 25
   10. MPLS Textual Convention Extension MIB definitions  . . . . . . 25
   11. MPLS Identifier MIB definitions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28
   12. MPLS LSR Extension MIB definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
   13. MPLS Tunnel Extension MIB definitions  . . . . . . . . . . . . 38
   14. Security Consideration . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
   15. IANA Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
     15.1. IANA Considerations for MPLS-TC-EXT-STD-MIB  . . . . . . . 56
     15.2. IANA Considerations for MPLS-ID-STD-MIB  . . . . . . . . . 56
     15.3. IANA Considerations for MPLS-LSR-EXT-STD-MIB . . . . . . . 56
     15.4. IANA Considerations for MPLS-TE-EXT-STD-MIB  . . . . . . . 56
   16. References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
     16.1. Normative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
     16.2.  Informative References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57
   17. Acknowledgments  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58
   18. Authors' Addresses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58










 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                  [Page 3]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


1. Introduction

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community. In
particular, it describes additional textual conventions and managed
objects for Tunnels, Identifiers and Label Switching Router to support
Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) MIB modules for transport networks.
MIB modules defined in this document extend the existing MPLS MIB
objects in such a way that they support MPLS-TP but also other MPLS
networks as well. Hence, the MPLS-TP name is not included in the MIB
module name.

As described in the MPLS Traffic Engineering (TE) Management Information
Base (MIB) definition [RFC3812], MPLS traffic engineering is concerned
with the creation and management of MPLS tunnels. This term is a
shorthand for a combination of one or more LSPs linking an ingress and
an egress LSR. Several types of point-to-point MPLS tunnels may be
constructed between a pair of LSRs A and B:

 - Unidirectional with a single LSP (say) from A to B.

 - Associated bidirectional consisting of two separately routed LSPs,
   one linking A to B and the other linking B to A. Together the pair 
   provide a single logical bidirectional transport path.

 - Co-routed bidirectional consisting of an associated bidirectional
   tunnel but with the second LSP from B to A following the reverse
   of the path of the LSP from A to B, in terms of both nodes and
   links.

Tunnels may be either statically configured by management action or
dynamically created using a LSP management protocol.

The existing MPLS TE MIB [RFC3812] and the Generalized Multiprotocol
Label Switching (GMPLS) Traffic Engineering Management Information Base
[RFC4802] address only a subset of the combinations of statically and
dynamically configured tunnel types, catering for statically configured
unidirectional tunnels together with dynamically configured
unidirectional and co-routed bidirectional tunnels. They are also
restricted to two end point LSRs identified by IP addresses.

The MPLS-TP TE MIB defined in this document extends the MIB modules
defined in [RFC3812] to cover all six combinations (that is adding
support for statically configured associated and co-routed bidirectional
plus dynamically configured associated bidirectional tunnels). It also
extends support to end points that are identified other than with IP
addresses.

 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                  [Page 4]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


This support is provided by a suite of four MIB modules that are to be
used in conjunction with the MIB modules defined in [RFC3812] and the
companion document [RFC3813] for MPLS Transport Profile (MPLS-TP) tunnel
management.

At the time of writing, SNMP SET is no longer recommended as a way to
configure MPLS networks as was described in [RFC3812].  However, since
the MIB modules specified in this document extend and are intended to
work in parallel with the MIB modules for MPLS specified in [RFC3812],
certain objects defined here are specified with MAX-ACCESS of read-write
or read-create so that specifications of the base tables in [RFC3812]
and the extensions in this document are consistent. Although the
examples described in Section 9 specify means to configure MPLS-TP
tunnels in a similar way to the examples in [RFC3812], this should be
seen as indicating how the MIB values would be returned in the specified
circumstances having been configured by alternative means.

2. The Internet-Standard Management Framework

For a detailed overview of the documents that describe the current
Internet-Standard Management Framework, please refer to section 7 of RFC
3410 [RFC3410].

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB. MIB objects are generally accessed
through the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP). Objects in the
MIB are defined using the mechanisms defined in the Structure of
Management Information (SMI). This memo specifies a MIB module that is
compliant to the SMIv2, which is described in STD 58 [RFC2578], STD 58
[RFC2579] and STD 58 [RFC2580].


3. Overview

3.1. Conventions used in this document

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC2119].

3.2. Terminology

This document uses terminology from the Multiprotocol Label Switching
Architecture [RFC3031], Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Traffic
Engineering (TE) Management Information Base (MIB) [RFC3812],
Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switching Router (LSR)
Management Information Base (MIB) [RFC3813] and MPLS Transport Profile
(MPLS-TP) Identifiers [RFC6370].
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                  [Page 5]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


3.3. Acronyms

CC: Country Code
ICC: ITU Carrier Code
LSP: Label Switching Path
LSR: Label Switching Router
MPLS-TP: MPLS Transport Profile
TE: Traffic Engineering
TP: Transport Profile

4. Motivations

Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Traffic Engineering (TE) Management
Information Base (MIB) [RFC3812] provides support for Traffic
Engineering tunnels. In MPLS, the actual transport of packets is
provided by Label Switched Paths (LSPs).  A transport service may be
composed of multiple LSPs. In order to clearly identify the MPLS-TP
service, as defined in [RFC6370], we use the term "MPLS-TP Tunnel" or
simply "tunnel". However, with MPLS-TP, the characteristics of the
tunnels were enhanced. For example, MPLS-TP tunnels, are bidirectional
in nature and could be used with non-IP identifiers for the tunnel end
points. As the existing MPLS-TE-STD-MIB and GMPLS-TE-STD-MIB were
defined mainly to support unidirectional tunnels and signaled co-routed
bidirectional tunnel definitions respectively, these existing MIB
modules are not sufficient to capture all the characteristics of the
tunnels. Hence, enhancing the MIB modules to support MPLS-TP tunnels is
required. As most of the attributes of MPLS Traffic Engineering tunnels
are also applicable to MPLS-TP tunnels, it is optimal to re-use and
extend the existing MIB module definition instead of defining a new MIB
module.

This document defines four additional MIB modules, namely MPLS-TE-EXT-
STD-MIB, MPLS-TC-EXT-STD-MIB, MPLS-ID-STD-MIB and MPLS-LSR-EXT-STD-MIB.
As these additional MIB modules are required for MPLS-TP functionality,
these are all defined in this document, instead of being documented
separately.

5. Feature List

The MIBs in this document satisfy the following requirements and
constraints:

The MIB modules, taken together, support statically configured and
dynamically signaled point-to-point, co-routed bidirectional and
associated bidirectional tunnels.

  - The MPLS tunnels need not be interfaces, but it is possible
    to configure an MPLS TP tunnel as an interface. Same ifType 150,
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                  [Page 6]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


    as defined in section 8 of [RFC3812], will be used for MPLS-TP
    tunnels as well.

  - The mplsTunnelTable [RFC3812] is also to be used for MPLS-TP
    tunnels.

  - New MPLS-TP specific textual conventions and identifiers are
    required.

  - The mplsTunnelTable is sparsely extended to support MPLS-TP
    tunnel specific objects.

  - A node configuration table (mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable), as 
    detailed in the below section 6.1.2, is used to translate 
    the Global_ID::Node_ID or ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID to 
    the local identifier in order to index mplsTunnelTable.

  - The mplsXCTable is sparsely extended to support MPLS-TP
    XC(Cross Connect) specific objects.

  - The MIB module supports persistent, as well as non-persistent
    tunnels.


























 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                  [Page 7]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


6. Outline

Traffic Engineering support for the MPLS-TP tunnels requires the set up
of the co-routed or associated bidirectional tunnel. The tables and MIB
modules that are mentioned in the below subsections support the
functionality described in documents [RFC5654] and [RFC6370].  These
tables support both IP compatible and ITU Carrier Code (ICC) based
tunnel configurations.

The below Figure 1 depicts how the table references are followed in this
MIB.

Tunnel1-->XC1<--------------
 ^ ^      | |               |
 | |      | |-->InSeg1      |
 | |      | |-->OutSeg1     |
 | |      v                 |
 |  ------XCext1            |
 |         |                |
 V         v                |
Tunnel2-->XC1               |
   ^      | |               |
   |      | |-->InSeg2      |
   |      | |-->OutSeg2     |
   |      v                 |
    ------XCext2------------

Figure 1: Table references of MIB modules


6.1 MIB Module Extensions

   Four MIB modules are extended to support MPLS-TP tunnels, namely,
   MPLS-TE-EXT-STD-MIB, MPLS-TC-EXT-STD-MIB, MPLS-ID-STD-MIB and MPLS-
   LSR-EXT-STD-MIB. Following section provides the summary of changes. 

6.1.1 Summary of MIB Module changes

     - Node configuration table (mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable) for
       setting the local identifier for Tunnel Ingress and Egress
       identifiers.

     - Node IP map table (mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapTable) for querying 
       the local identifier for a given Global_ID and Node_ID.

     - Node ICC map table (mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapTable) for querying 
       the local identifier for a given ICC_Operator_ID and Node_ID.

 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                  [Page 8]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


     - Tunnel extension table (mplsTunnelExtTable) for setting up 
       MPLS-TP tunnels with sparse extension of mplsTunnelTable.

     - Textual conventions and object definitions for MPLS-TP Tunnels

     - Cross connect extension table (mplsXCExtTable) for setting up 
       the MPLS-TP LSPs.

   These tables are described in the subsequent sections.

6.2 MPLS-TE-EXT-STD-MIB

   The TE MIB module extensions and details of the tables are described
   in the following sections. 

6.2.1 mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable

   The mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable is used to assign a local identifier
   for a given ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID or Global_ID::Node_ID
   combination as defined in [RFC6923] and [RFC6370] respectively. The
   CC is a string of two alphabetic characters represented with upper
   case letters (i.e., A-Z). The ICC is a string of one to six
   characters, each character being either alphabetic (i.e. A-Z) or
   numeric (i.e. 0-9) characters. Alphabetic characters in the ICC
   should be represented with upper case letters. In the IP compatible
   mode, Global_ID::Node_ID, is used to uniquely identify a node. For
   each ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID or Global_ID::Node_ID, there is a
   unique entry in the table representing a node.  As the regular TE
   tunnels use IP address as LSR ID, the local identifier should be
   below the first valid IP address, which is 16777216[1.0.0.0]. Every
   node is assigned a local identifier within a range of 0 to 16777215.
   This local identifier is used for indexing into mplsTunnelTable as
   mplsTunnelIngressLSRId and mplsTunnelEgressLSRId.

   For IP compatible environment, MPLS-TP tunnel is indexed by Tunnel
   Index, Tunnel Instance, Source Global_ID, Source Node_ID, Destination
   Global_ID and Destination Node_ID.

   For ICC based environment, MPLS-TP tunnel is indexed by Tunnel Index,
   Tunnel Instance, Source CC, Source ICC, Source Node_ID, Destination
   CC, Destination ICC and Destination Node_ID.

   As mplsTunnelTable is indexed by mplsTunnelIndex,
   mplsTunnelInstance, mplsTunnelIngressLSRId, and
   mplsTunnelEgressLSRId, the MPLS-TP tunnel identifiers cannot be
   used directly.

   The mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable will be used to store an entry for
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                  [Page 9]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


   ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID or Global_ID::Node_ID with a local
   identifier to be used as LSR ID in mplsTunnelTable.

6.2.2 mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapTable

   The read-only mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapTable is used to query the local
   identifier assigned and stored in mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable for
   a given Global_ID::Node_ID. In order to query the local identifier,
   in the IP compatible mode, this table is indexed with 
   Global_ID::Node_ID. In the IP compatible mode for a TP tunnel, 
   Global_ID::Node_ID is used.

   A separate query is made to get the local identifier of both
   Ingress and Egress Global_ID::Node_ID identifiers. These local
   identifiers are used as mplsTunnelIngressLSRId and
   mplsTunnelEgressLSRId, while indexing mplsTunnelTable.

6.2.3 mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapTable

   The read-only mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapTable is used to query the local
   identifier assigned and stored in the mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable
   for a given ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID.

   A separate query is made to get the local identifier of both
   Ingress and Egress ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID. These local identifiers
   are used as mplsTunnelIngressLSRId and mplsTunnelEgressLSRId, 
   while indexing mplsTunnelTable.

6.2.4 mplsTunnelExtTable

   This table sparsely extends the mplsTunnelTable in order to support
   MPLS-TP tunnels with additional objects. All the additional
   attributes specific to supporting TP tunnel are contained in this
   extended table and could be accessed with the mplsTunnelTable
   indices.

   The gmplsTunnelReversePerfTable [RFC4802] should be used to provide
   per-tunnel packet performance information for the reverse direction
   of a bidirectional tunnel. It can be seen as supplementing the
   mplsTunnelPerfTable, which augments the mplsTunnelTable.

6.3 MPLS-TC-EXT-STD-MIB

   This MIB module contains textual Conventions for LSPs of MPLS based
   transport networks.

6.4 MPLS-ID-STD-MIB

 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 10]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


   This MIB module contains generic object definitions for MPLS Traffic
   Engineering in transport networks.

6.5 MPLS-LSR-EXT-STD-MIB

   This MIB module contains generic object definitions (Cross connect
   extension table - mplsXCExtTable, for setting up the MPLS-TP LSPs
   with sparse extension of mplsXCTable) for MPLS LSRs in transport
   networks.

6.6 The Use of RowPointer

   This document follows the RowPointer usage as described in the
   section 10 of [RFC3812].

   A new RowPointer object, mplsTunnelExtOppositeDirPtr, is added to
   mplsTunnelExtTable of MPLS-TE-EXT-STD-MIB MIB module. This RowPointer
   object points to the opposite direction tunnel entry.

   Two additional RowPointers objects, mplsXCExtTunnelPointer and
   mplsXCExtOppositeDirXCPtr are added to mplsXCExtTable of MPLS-LSR-
   EXT-STD-MIB. The RowPointer mplsXCExtTunnelPointer is read-only
   object used to indicate the back pointer to the tunnel entry. The
   RowPointer mplsXCExtOppositeDirXCPtr object points to the opposite
   direction XC entry. 

   If these RowPointer returns zeroDotZero, it implies that there is no
   entry associated with the RowPointer object.




















 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 11]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


7. MIB Modules Interdependencies

   This section provides an overview of the relationship between the
   MPLS-TP TE MIB module and other MPLS MIB modules.

   The arrows in the following diagram show a 'depends on'
   relationship. A relationship "MIB module A depends on MIB module B"
   means that MIB module A uses an object, object identifier, or
   textual convention defined in MIB module B, or that MIB module A
   contains a pointer (index or RowPointer) to an object in
   MIB module B.

       MPLS-TC-EXT-STD-MIB
          ^
          |
          |
          +<---- MPLS-ID-STD-MIB
                        ^
          |             |
          +<---- MPLS-TE-EXT-STD-MIB
          |             |
          |             V
          |      MPLS-TE-STD-MIB
          |             |
          |             |
          |             V
          |      MPLS-LSR-STD-MIB
          |             ^
          |             |
          |             |
          +------MPLS-LSR-EXT-STD-MIB

       Figure 2: MIB modules interdependencies

       Thus:

        -  All the new MPLS extension MIB modules depend on
           MPLS-TC-EXT-STD-MIB.

        -  MPLS-ID-STD-MIB contains references to objects in
           MPLS-TE-STD-MIB [RFC3812].

        -  MPLS-TE-EXT-STD-MIB contains references to objects in
           MPLS-TE-STD-MIB [RFC3812].

        -  MPLS-LSR-EXT-STD-MIB contains references to objects in
           MPLS-LSR-STD-MIB [RFC3813].

 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 12]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


   The mplsTunnelExtTable sparsely extends the mplsTunnelTable of
   MPLS-TE-STD-MIB [RFC3812]. This helps in associating the reverse
   direction tunnel information.

   The mplsXCExtTable sparsely extends the mplsXCTable of
   MPLS-LSR-STD-MIB [RFC3813]. This helps in pointing back to the tunnel
   entry for easy tunnel access from XC entry.

   Note that all of the MIB modules shown above in the figure also
   have a dependency on MPLS-TC-STD-MIB.

8. Dependencies between MIB Module Tables

   The tables in MPLS-TE-EXT-STD-MIB are related as shown on the diagram
   below.  The arrows indicate a reference from one table to another.

         mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable
              ^          ^       ^     
              |          |       | 
              |          |       | 
              |          |       |
              |          |       +----------------------+
              |          |                              | 
              | mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapTable mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapTable
              |
              |              mplsXCExtTable
              |               |      ^
              |     +---------+      |
              |     |                |
              |     |                |  
              |     V                V
         mplsTunnelTable ---->mplsXCTable
              ^     
              |             
              |     
              |     
        mplsTunnelExtTable     

     Figure 3: Dependencies between MIB module tables

   An existing mplsTunnelTable uses the mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable
   table to map the Global_ID::Node_ID and/or ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID
   with the local number in order to accommodate in the existing tunnel
   table's ingress/egress LSR-id.

   New mplsTunnelExtTable table provides the reverse direction LSP
   information for the existing tunnel table in order to achieve
   bidirectional LSPs.
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 13]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


   mplsXCExtTable sparsely extends the mplsLsrXCTable to provide
   backward reference to tunnel entry.

9. Example of MPLS-TP Tunnel Setup

   In this section, we provide an example to configure MPLS-TP
   bidirectional tunnels with IP tunnel identifiers. This example
   provides the usage of MPLS-TP Tunnel MIB along with the extended MIB
   modules introduced in this document.

   Do note that a MPLS-TP tunnel could be setup statically as well as
   signaled via control plane. This example considers accessing MIB
   objects on a head-end for a static and signaled MPLS-TP tunnels. This
   section shows the configuration of the forward and reverse direction
   MPLS-TP LSPs that run between East and West and vice-versa. Only
   objects relevant to MPLS-TP tunnels are illustrated here.

   In mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable:

   {
   -- Non-IP Ingress LSR-Id (Index to the table)

     mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigLocalId              = 1,

     mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigGlobalId             = 1234,
     mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigNodeId               = 10,
   -- Mandatory parameters needed to activate the row go here
     mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigRowStatus         = createAndGo (4)

   -- Non-IP Egress LSR-Id (Index to the table)
     mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigLocalId              = 2,
     mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigGlobalId             = 1234,
     mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigNodeId               = 20,
   -- Mandatory parameters needed to activate the row go here
     mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigRowStatus         = createAndGo (4)
   }

   This will create an entry in the mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable for a
   Global_ID::Node_ID. A separate entry is made for both Ingress LSR
   and Egress LSR.

   The following read-only mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapTable table is
   populated automatically upon creating an entry in
   mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable and this table is used to retrieve
   the local identifier for the given Global_ID::Node_ID.

   In mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapTable:

 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 14]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


   {
   -- Global_ID (Index to the table)
     mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapGlobalId             = 1234,
   -- Node Identifier (Index to the table)
     mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapNodeId               = 10,
     mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapLocalId              = 1

   -- Global_ID (Index to the table)
     mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapGlobalId             = 1234,
   -- Node Identifier (Index to the table)
     mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapNodeId               = 20,
     mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapLocalId              = 2
   }

9.1. Example of MPLS-TP static co-routed bidirectional tunnel setup

   The following denotes the co-routed bidirectional tunnel "head"
   entry.

9.1.1. mplsTunnelEntry

     In mplsTunnelTable:

   {
     mplsTunnelIndex              = 1,
     mplsTunnelInstance           = 1,
   -- Local map number created in mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable for
   -- Ingress LSR-Id
     mplsTunnelIngressLSRId       = 1,

   -- Local map number created in mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable for
   -- Egress LSR-Id
     mplsTunnelEgressLSRId        = 2,
     mplsTunnelName               = "TP co-routed bidirectional LSP",
     mplsTunnelDescr              = "East to West",
     mplsTunnelIsIf               = true (1),
   --  RowPointer MUST point to the first accessible column
     mplsTunnelXCPointer          =
                                mplsXCLspId.4.0.0.0.1.1.0.4.0.0.0.1,
     mplsTunnelSignallingProto    = none (1),
     mplsTunnelSetupPrio          = 0,
     mplsTunnelHoldingPrio        = 0,
     mplsTunnelSessionAttributes  = 0,
     mplsTunnelLocalProtectInUse  = false (0),
   --  RowPointer MUST point to the first accessible column
     mplsTunnelResourcePointer    = mplsTunnelResourceMaxRate.5,
     mplsTunnelInstancePriority   = 1,
     mplsTunnelHopTableIndex      = 1,
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 15]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


     mplsTunnelIncludeAnyAffinity = 0,
     mplsTunnelIncludeAllAffinity = 0,
     mplsTunnelExcludeAnyAffinity = 0,
     mplsTunnelRole               = head (1),
   -- Mandatory parameters needed to activate the row go here
     mplsTunnelRowStatus          = createAndGo (4)
   }

9.1.2. mplsTunnelExtEntry

   -- An MPLS extension table
   In mplsTunnelExtTable:
   {
     -- This opposite direction tunnel pointer may point to 0.0
     -- if co-routed bidirectional tunnel is managed by single tunnel
     -- entry
     mplsTunnelExtOppositeDirTnlPtr       = 0.0
     -- Set both the Ingress and Egress LocalId objects to TRUE as
     -- this tunnel entry uses the local identifiers.
     mplsTunnelExtIngressLSRLocalIdValid  = true,
     mplsTunnelExtEgressLSRLocalIdValid = true

   }

   We must next create the appropriate in-segment and out-segment
   entries. These are done in [RFC3813] using the mplsInSegmentTable and
   mplsOutSegmentTable.

9.1.3. Forward direction mplsOutSegmentEntry

   For the forward direction,

   In mplsOutSegmentTable:
   {
      mplsOutSegmentIndex          = 0x0000001,
      mplsOutSegmentInterface      = 13, -- outgoing interface
      mplsOutSegmentPushTopLabel   = true(1),
      mplsOutSegmentTopLabel       = 22, -- outgoing label

      -- RowPointer MUST point to the first accessible column.
      mplsOutSegmentTrafficParamPtr   = 0.0,
      mplsOutSegmentRowStatus         = createAndGo (4)
   }

9.1.4. Reverse direction mplsInSegmentEntry

     For the reverse direction,

 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 16]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


   In mplsInSegmentTable:
   {
      mplsInSegmentIndex           = 0x0000001
      mplsInSegmentLabel           = 21, -- incoming label
      mplsInSegmentNPop            = 1,
      mplsInSegmentInterface       = 13, -- incoming interface

      -- RowPointer MUST point to the first accessible column.
      mplsInSegmentTrafficParamPtr    = 0.0,
      mplsInSegmentRowStatus          = createAndGo (4)
   }

   Next, two cross-connect entries are created in the mplsXCTable of the
   MPLS-LSR-STD-MIB [RFC3813], thereby associating the newly created
   segments together.

9.1.5. Forward direction mplsXCEntry

   In mplsXCTable:
   {
      mplsXCIndex                = 0x01,
      mplsXCInSegmentIndex       = 0x00000000,
      mplsXCOutSegmentIndex      = 0x00000001,
      mplsXCLspId                = 0x0102 -- unique ID

      -- only a single outgoing label
      mplsXCLabelStackIndex      = 0x00,
      mplsXCRowStatus            = createAndGo(4)

   }

9.1.6. Reverse direction mplsXCEntry

   In mplsXCTable:
   {
      mplsXCIndex                = 0x01,
      mplsXCInSegmentIndex       = 0x00000001,
      mplsXCOutSegmentIndex      = 0x00000000,
      mplsXCLspId                = 0x0102 -- unique ID
      -- only a single outgoing label
      mplsXCLabelStackIndex      = 0x00,
      mplsXCRowStatus            = createAndGo(4)
   }

   This table entry is extended by entry in the
   mplsXCExtTable.  Note that the nature of the 'extends'
   relationship is a sparse augmentation so that the entry in the
   mplsXCExtTable has the same index values as the entry in
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 17]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


   the mplsXCTable.

9.1.7. Forward direction mplsXCExtEntry

   In mplsXCExtTable (0x01, 0x00000000, 0x00000001)
   {
     -- Back pointer from XC table to Tunnel table
     mplsXCExtTunnelPointer         = mplsTunnelName.1.1.1.2
     mplsXCExtOppositeDirXCPtr         =
                                 mplsXCLspId.4.0.0.0.1.4.0.0.0.1.1.0
   }

9.1.8. Reverse direction mplsXCExtEntry

   Next for the reverse direction:

   In mplsXCExtTable (0x01, 0x00000001, 0x00000000)
   {
     -- Back pointer from XC table to Tunnel table
     mplsXCExtTunnelPointer         = mplsTunnelName.1.1.1.2
     mplsXCExtOppositeDirXCPtr         =
                                 mplsXCLspId.4.0.0.0.1.1.0.4.0.0.0.1
   }

9.2. Example of MPLS-TP static associated bidirectional tunnel setup

   The MPLS-TP associated bidirectional tunnel is implemented by two
   different unidirectional tunnels [Forward and Reverse LSPs] and these
   are associated together using mplsTunnelExtTable. Two different
   tunnel entries to provide the forward and reverse directions MAY be
   used for co-routed bidirectional tunnels as well.

   The following denotes the associated bidirectional forward tunnel
   "head" entry:

9.2.1. Forward direction mplsTunnelEntry

     In mplsTunnelTable:

   {
     mplsTunnelIndex              = 1,
     mplsTunnelInstance           = 1,
   -- Local map number created in mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable for
   -- Ingress LSR-Id
     mplsTunnelIngressLSRId       = 1,

   -- Local map number created in mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable for
   -- Egress LSR-Id
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 18]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


     mplsTunnelEgressLSRId        = 2,
     mplsTunnelName               = "TP associated bidirectional
                                     forward LSP",
     mplsTunnelDescr              = "East to West",
     mplsTunnelIsIf               = true (1),
   --  RowPointer MUST point to the first accessible column
     mplsTunnelXCPointer          =
                                mplsXCLspId.4.0.0.0.1.1.0.4.0.0.0.1,
     mplsTunnelSignallingProto    = none (1),
     mplsTunnelSetupPrio          = 0,
     mplsTunnelHoldingPrio        = 0,
     mplsTunnelSessionAttributes  = 0,
     mplsTunnelLocalProtectInUse  = false (0),
   --  RowPointer MUST point to the first accessible column
     mplsTunnelResourcePointer    = mplsTunnelResourceMaxRate.5,
     mplsTunnelInstancePriority   = 1,
     mplsTunnelHopTableIndex      = 1,
     mplsTunnelIncludeAnyAffinity = 0,

     mplsTunnelIncludeAllAffinity = 0,
     mplsTunnelExcludeAnyAffinity = 0,
     mplsTunnelRole               = head (1),
   -- Mandatory parameters needed to activate the row go here
     mplsTunnelRowStatus          = createAndGo (4)
   }

9.2.2. Forward direction mplsTunnelExtEntry

   For Associated bidirectional forward LSP,
   In mplsTunnelExtTable:
   {
     mplsTunnelExtOppositeDirPtr       = mplsTunnelName.2.1.2.1
    -- Set both the Ingress and Egress LocalId objects to TRUE as
     -- this tunnel entry uses the local identifiers.
     mplsTunnelExtIngressLSRLocalIdValid  = true,
     mplsTunnelExtEgressLSRLocalIdValid = true
   }

9.2.3. Forward direction mplsOutSegmentTable

   For the forward direction.

   In mplsOutSegmentTable:
   {
      mplsOutSegmentIndex          = 0x0000001,
      mplsOutSegmentInterface      = 13, -- outgoing interface
      mplsOutSegmentPushTopLabel   = true(1),
      mplsOutSegmentTopLabel       = 22, -- outgoing label
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 19]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


      -- RowPointer MUST point to the first accessible column.
      mplsOutSegmentTrafficParamPtr   = 0.0,
      mplsOutSegmentRowStatus         = createAndGo (4)
   }

9.2.4. Forward direction mplsXCEntry

   In mplsXCTable:
   {
      mplsXCIndex                = 0x01,
      mplsXCInSegmentIndex       = 0x00000000,
      mplsXCOutSegmentIndex      = 0x00000001,
      mplsXCLspId                = 0x0102 -- unique ID
      -- only a single outgoing label
      mplsXCLabelStackIndex      = 0x00,
      mplsXCRowStatus            = createAndGo(4)

   }

9.2.5. Forward direction mplsXCExtEntry

   In mplsXCExtTable (0x01, 0x00000000, 0x00000001)
   {
     -- Back pointer from XC table to Tunnel table
     mplsXCExtTunnelPointer         = mplsTunnelName.1.1.1.2
     mplsXCExtOppositeDirXCPtr         =
                                mplsXCLspId.4.0.0.0.1.4.0.0.0.1.1.0
   }

9.2.6. Reverse direction mplsTunnelEntry

   The following denotes the configured associated bidirectional reverse
   tunnel "tail" entry:

       In mplsTunnelTable:

   {
     mplsTunnelIndex              = 2,
     mplsTunnelInstance           = 1,
   -- Local map number created in mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable for
   -- Ingress LSR-Id
     mplsTunnelIngressLSRId       = 2,
   -- Local map number created in mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable for
   -- Egress LSR-Id
     mplsTunnelEgressLSRId        = 1,
     mplsTunnelName               = "TP associated bidirectional
                                     reverse LSP",
     mplsTunnelDescr              = "West to East",
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 20]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


     mplsTunnelIsIf               = true (1),
   --  RowPointer MUST point to the first accessible column
     mplsTunnelXCPointer          =
                                mplsXCLspId.4.0.0.0.1.4.0.0.0.1.1.0,
     mplsTunnelSignallingProto    = none (1),
     mplsTunnelSetupPrio          = 0,
     mplsTunnelHoldingPrio        = 0,
     mplsTunnelSessionAttributes  = 0,
     mplsTunnelLocalProtectInUse  = false (0),

   --  RowPointer MUST point to the first accessible column
     mplsTunnelResourcePointer    = mplsTunnelResourceMaxRate.5,
     mplsTunnelInstancePriority   = 1,
     mplsTunnelHopTableIndex      = 1,
     mplsTunnelIncludeAnyAffinity = 0,
     mplsTunnelIncludeAllAffinity = 0,
     mplsTunnelExcludeAnyAffinity = 0,
     mplsTunnelRole               = head (1),
   -- Mandatory parameters needed to activate the row go here

     mplsTunnelRowStatus          = createAndGo (4)
   }

9.2.7. Reverse direction mplsTunnelExtEntry

   For Associated bidirectional reverse LSP,
   In mplsTunnelExtTable:
   {
     mplsTunnelExtOppositeDirPtr       = mplsTunnelName.1.1.1.2
     -- Set both the Ingress and Egress LocalId objects to TRUE as
     -- this tunnel entry uses the local identifiers.
     mplsTunnelExtIngressLSRLocalIdValid  = true,
     mplsTunnelExtEgressLSRLocalIdValid = true
   }

9.2.8. Reverse direction mplsInSegmentEntry

   We must next create the appropriate in-segment and out-segment
   entries. These are done in [RFC3813] using the mplsInSegmentTable and
   mplsOutSegmentTable.

   In mplsInSegmentTable:
   {
      mplsInSegmentIndex           = 0x0000001
      mplsInSegmentLabel           = 21, -- incoming label
      mplsInSegmentNPop            = 1,
      mplsInSegmentInterface       = 13, -- incoming interface

 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 21]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


      -- RowPointer MUST point to the first accessible column.
      mplsInSegmentTrafficParamPtr    = 0.0,
      mplsInSegmentRowStatus          = createAndGo (4)
   }

   Next, two cross-connect entries are created in the mplsXCTable of the
   MPLS-LSR-STD-MIB [RFC3813], thereby associating the newly created
   segments together.

9.2.9. Reverse direction mplsXCEntry


   In mplsXCTable:
   {
      mplsXCIndex                = 0x01,
      mplsXCInSegmentIndex       = 0x00000001,
      mplsXCOutSegmentIndex      = 0x00000000,
      mplsXCLspId                = 0x0102 -- unique ID
      -- only a single outgoing label
      mplsXCLabelStackIndex      = 0x00,

      mplsXCRowStatus            = createAndGo(4)
   }

   This table entry is extended by entry in the
   mplsXCExtTable.  Note that the nature of the 'extends'
   relationship is a sparse augmentation so that the entry in the
   mplsXCExtTable has the same index values as the entry in
   the mplsXCTable.

9.2.10. Reverse direction mplsXCExtEntry

   Next for the reverse direction:

   In mplsXCExtTable (0x01, 0x00000001, 0x00000000)
   {
     -- Back pointer from XC table to Tunnel table
     mplsXCExtTunnelPointer         = mplsTunnelName.2.1.2.1
     mplsXCExtOppositeDirXCPtr         =
                              mplsXCLspId.4.0.0.0.1.1.0.4.0.0.0.1
   }

9.3. Example of MPLS-TP signaled co-routed bidirectional tunnel setup

   The following denotes the co-routed bidirectional tunnel "head" entry
   and in intermediate and tail-end nodes, the tunnel table and its 
   associated tables are created by the local management subsystem 
   (e.g. agent) when the MPLS TP tunnel is signaled successfully. 
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 22]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


   Refer [RFC3812] and [RFC4802] for signaled tunnel table 
   configuration examples.

9.3.1. mplsTunnelEntry

     In mplsTunnelTable:

   {
     mplsTunnelIndex              = 1,
     mplsTunnelInstance           = 0,
   -- Local map number created in mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable for
   -- Ingress LSR-Id, for the intermediate and tail-end nodes,
   -- the local management entity is expected to pick a first available
   -- local identifier which is not used in mplsTunnelTable.
     mplsTunnelIngressLSRId       = 1,

   -- Local map number created in mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable for
   -- Egress LSR-Id
     mplsTunnelEgressLSRId        = 2,
     mplsTunnelName               = "TP co-routed bidirectional LSP",
     mplsTunnelDescr              = "East to West",
     mplsTunnelIsIf               = true (1),

   --  RowPointer MUST point to the first accessible column
     mplsTunnelXCPointer          =
                                mplsXCLspId.4.0.0.0.1.1.0.4.0.0.0.1,
     mplsTunnelSignallingProto    = none (1),
     mplsTunnelSetupPrio          = 0,
     mplsTunnelHoldingPrio        = 0,
     mplsTunnelSessionAttributes  = 0,
     mplsTunnelLocalProtectInUse  = false (0),
   --  RowPointer MUST point to the first accessible column
     mplsTunnelResourcePointer    = mplsTunnelResourceMaxRate.5,
     mplsTunnelInstancePriority   = 1,
     mplsTunnelHopTableIndex      = 1,
     mplsTunnelIncludeAnyAffinity = 0,
     mplsTunnelIncludeAllAffinity = 0,
     mplsTunnelExcludeAnyAffinity = 0,
     mplsTunnelRole               = head (1),
   -- Mandatory parameters needed to activate the row go here
     mplsTunnelRowStatus          = createAndGo (4)
   }

9.3.2. mplsTunnelExtEntry

   -- An MPLS extension table
   In mplsTunnelExtTable:
   {
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 23]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


     -- This opposite direction tunnel pointer may point to 0.0
     -- if co-routed bidirectional tunnel is managed by single tunnel
     -- entry
     mplsTunnelExtOppositeDirTnlPtr       = 0.0
     -- Set both the Ingress and Egress LocalId objects to TRUE as
     -- this tunnel entry uses the local identifiers.
     mplsTunnelExtIngressLSRLocalIdValid  = true,
     mplsTunnelExtEgressLSRLocalIdValid = true
   }

   We must next create the appropriate in-segment and out-segment
   entries. These are done in [RFC3813] using the mplsInSegmentTable and
   mplsOutSegmentTable.

9.3.3. Forward direction mplsOutSegmentEntry

   The forward direction mplsOutSegmentTable will be populated
   automatically based on the information received from the signaling
   protocol.

9.3.4. Reverse direction mplsInSegmentEntry

   The reverse direction mplsOutSegmentTable will be populated
   automatically based on the information received from the signaling
   protocol.

   Next, two cross-connect entries are created in the mplsXCTable of the
   MPLS-LSR-STD-MIB [RFC3813], thereby associating the newly created
   segments together.

9.3.5. Forward direction mplsXCEntry

   The forward direction mplsXCEntry will be populated as soon as the
   forward path label information is available.

9.3.6. Reverse direction mplsXCEntry

   The reverse direction mplsXCEntry will be populated as soon as the
   reverse path label information is available.

   This table entry is extended by entry in the mplsXCExtTable.  Note
   that the nature of the 'extends' relationship is a sparse
   augmentation so that the entry in the mplsXCExtTable has the same
   index values as the entry in the mplsXCTable.

9.3.7. Forward direction mplsXCExtEntry

   Once the forward path information is negotiated using signaling
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 24]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


   protocol, the forward direction mplsXCExtEntry will be created for
   associating the opposite direction XC entry and tunnel table entry.

9.3.8. Reverse direction mplsXCExtEntry

   Once the reverse path information is negotiated using signaling
   protocol, the reverse direction mplsXCExtEntry will be created for
   associating the opposite direction XC entry and tunnel table entry.

10. MPLS Textual Convention Extension MIB definitions

     MPLS-TC-EXT-STD-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

   IMPORTS
      MODULE-IDENTITY, Unsigned32
         FROM SNMPv2-SMI               -- [RFC2578]

      TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
         FROM SNMPv2-TC                -- [RFC2579]

      mplsStdMIB
         FROM MPLS-TC-STD-MIB          -- [RFC3811]

      ;

   mplsTcExtStdMIB MODULE-IDENTITY

      LAST-UPDATED
         "201412120000Z" -- December 12, 2014
      ORGANIZATION
         "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Working Group"
      CONTACT-INFO
         "
                Venkatesan Mahalingam
                Dell Inc,
                5450 Great America Parkway,
                Santa Clara, CA 95054, USA
          Email: venkat.mahalingams@gmail.com

                Kannan KV Sampath
                Redeem,
                India
          Email: kannankvs@gmail.com

                Sam Aldrin
                Huawei Technologies
                2330 Central Express Way,
                Santa Clara, CA 95051, USA
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 25]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


          Email:  aldrin.ietf@gmail.com

                Thomas D. Nadeau
          Email: tnadeau@lucidvision.com
         "
      DESCRIPTION
          "Copyright (c) 2014 IETF Trust and the persons identified
           as the document authors.  All rights reserved.

           This MIB module contains Textual Conventions for LSPs of MPLS
           based transport networks."

      -- Revision history.

      REVISION

         "201412120000Z" -- December 12, 2014
      DESCRIPTION
           "MPLS Textual Convention Extensions"

      ::= { mplsStdMIB www } -- www to be replaced with correct value

   MplsGlobalId ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
           "This object contains the Textual Convention for IP based
            operator unique identifier (Global_ID), the Global_ID can
            contain the 2-octet or 4-octet value of the operator's
            Autonomous System Number (ASN).

            When the Global_ID is derived from a 2-octet AS number,
            the two high-order octets of this 4-octet identifier
            MUST be set to zero(0x00). Further ASN 0 is reserved.  
            The size of the Global_ID string MUST be zero if 
            the Global_ID is invalid.

            Note that a Global_ID of zero is limited to entities 
            contained within a single operator and MUST NOT be used
            across an Network-to-Network Interface (NNI). A non-zero
            Global_ID MUST be derived from an ASN owned by
            the operator."
      REFERENCE
           "MPLS Transport Profile (MPLS-TP) Identifiers, [RFC6370] 
            Section 3"
      SYNTAX  OCTET STRING (SIZE (4))

   MplsCcId ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
      STATUS      current
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 26]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


      DESCRIPTION
           "The CC (Country Code) is a string of two alphabetic
            characters represented with upper case
            letters (i.e., A-Z). The size of the CC string MUST be
            zero if the CC identifier is invalid."
   REFERENCE
           "MPLS-TP Identifiers Following ITU-T Conventions,
            [RFC6923] Section 3"
   SYNTAX  OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))

   MplsIccId ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
           "The ICC is a string of one to six characters, each
            character being either alphabetic (i.e.  A-Z) or
            numeric (i.e. 0-9) characters.
            Alphabetic characters in the ICC SHOULD be represented
            with upper case letters. The size of the ICC string MUST
            be zero if the ICC identifier is invalid."
   REFERENCE
           "MPLS-TP Identifiers Following ITU-T Conventions, 
           [RFC6923] Section 3"
   SYNTAX  OCTET STRING (SIZE (0|1..6))

   MplsNodeId ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
      DISPLAY-HINT "d"
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The Node_ID is assigned within the scope of 
           the Global_ID/ICC_Operator_ID.

           When IPv4 addresses are in use, the value of this object
           can be derived from the LSR's IPv4 loop back address.
           When IPv6 addresses are in use, the value of this object
           can be a 32-bit value unique within the scope of
           a Global_ID.

           Note that, when IP reachability is not needed, the 32-bit
           Node_ID is not required to have any association
           with the IPv4 address space. The value of 0 indicates
           the invalid Node identifier."
      REFERENCE
           "MPLS Transport Profile (MPLS-TP) Identifiers, [RFC6370] 
            Section 4"
      SYNTAX  Unsigned32 (0|1..4294967295)

     -- MPLS-TC-EXT-STD-MIB module ends
     END
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 27]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


11. MPLS Identifier MIB definitions

    MPLS-ID-STD-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

    IMPORTS
     MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE
        FROM SNMPv2-SMI                                 -- [RFC2578]
     MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP
        FROM SNMPv2-CONF                                -- [RFC2580]
     mplsStdMIB
        FROM MPLS-TC-STD-MIB                            -- [RFC3811]
     MplsGlobalId, MplsCcId, MplsIccId, MplsNodeId
        FROM MPLS-TC-EXT-STD-MIB
     ;

   mplsIdStdMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
     LAST-UPDATED
        "201412120000Z" -- December 12, 2014
     ORGANIZATION
        "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Working Group"

     CONTACT-INFO
        "
               Venkatesan Mahalingam
               Dell Inc,
               5450 Great America Parkway,
               Santa Clara, CA 95054, USA
     Email: venkat.mahalingams@gmail.com

               Kannan KV Sampath

               Redeem,
               India
         Email: kannankvs@gmail.com


               Sam Aldrin
               Huawei Technologies
               2330 Central Express Way,
               Santa Clara, CA 95051, USA
         Email:  aldrin.ietf@gmail.com

               Thomas D. Nadeau
         Email: tnadeau@lucidvision.com
       "
     DESCRIPTION
         "Copyright (c) 2014 IETF Trust and the persons identified
          as the document authors.  All rights reserved.
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 28]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


          This MIB module contains generic object definitions for
          MPLS Traffic Engineering in transport networks."

     -- Revision history.

     REVISION
         "201412120000Z" -- December 12, 2014
     DESCRIPTION
          "This MIB modules defines the MIB objects for MPLS-TP
           identifiers"

     ::= { mplsStdMIB xxx } -- xxx to be replaced with correct value

     -- notifications
     mplsIdNotifications OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { mplsIdStdMIB 0 }
     -- tables, scalars
     mplsIdObjects       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { mplsIdStdMIB 1 }
     -- conformance
     mplsIdConformance   OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { mplsIdStdMIB 2 }


     -- MPLS common objects

   mplsIdGlobalId OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      MplsGlobalId
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "This object allows the operator or service provider to
             assign a unique operator identifier also called MPLS-TP
             Global_ID.
             If this value is used in mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigGlobalId 
             for mapping Global_ID::Node_ID with the local identifier 
             then this object value MUST NOT be changed."
       ::= { mplsIdObjects 1 }

   mplsIdNodeId OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      MplsNodeId
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This object allows the operator or service provider to
            assign a unique MPLS-TP Node_ID. The Node_ID is assigned
            within the scope of the Global_ID/ICC_Operator_ID.
            If this value is used in mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigNodeId 
            for mapping Global_ID::Node_ID with the local identifier 
            then this object value SHOULD NOT be changed.
            If this value is used in mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigNodeId 
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 29]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


            for mapping ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID with the local
            identifier then this object value MUST NOT be changed."
       ::= { mplsIdObjects 2 }

   mplsIdCc OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      MplsCcId
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "This object allows the operator or service provider to
             assign a Country Code (CC) to the node. Global 
             uniqueness of ICC is assured by concatenating the ICC
             with a Country Code (CC).
             If this value is used in mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigCcId 
             for mapping ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID with the local
             identifier then this object value MUST NOT be changed." 
   REFERENCE
           "MPLS-TP Identifiers Following ITU-T Conventions, 
            [RFC6923] Section 3"
       ::= { mplsIdObjects 3 }


   mplsIdIcc OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      MplsIccId
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
            "This object allows the operator or service provider to
             assign a unique MPLS-TP ITU-T Carrier Code (ICC) to
             the node. Together, the CC and the ICC form 
             the ICC_Operator_ID as CC::ICC.
             If this value is used in mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigIccId 
             for mapping ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID with the local
             identifier then this object value MUST NOT be changed." 
   REFERENCE
           "MPLS-TP Identifiers Following ITU-T Conventions, 
            [RFC6923] Section 3"
       ::= { mplsIdObjects 4 }


    -- Module compliance.

   mplsIdCompliances
      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { mplsIdConformance 1 }

   mplsIdGroups
      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { mplsIdConformance 2 }

 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 30]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


   -- Compliance requirement for fully compliant implementations.

   mplsIdModuleFullCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
           "Compliance statement for agents that provide full
             support of the MPLS-ID-STD-MIB module."

      MODULE -- this module


         -- The mandatory group has to be implemented by all LSRs that
         -- originate, terminate, or act as transit for MPLS-TP tunnels.

         GROUP mplsIdIpOperatorGroup
         DESCRIPTION
             "This group is mandatory for devices which support
              IP based identifier configuration."

         GROUP mplsIdIccOperatorGroup
         DESCRIPTION
             "This group is mandatory for devices which support
              ICC based identifier configuration."

          ::= { mplsIdCompliances 1 }

          -- Compliance requirement for read-only implementations.

         mplsIdModuleReadOnlyCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
            STATUS current
            DESCRIPTION
                 "Compliance statement for agents that only provide
                  read-only support for the MPLS-ID-STD-MIB module."

         MODULE -- this module

         GROUP mplsIdIpOperatorGroup
         DESCRIPTION
             "This group is mandatory for devices which support
              IP based identifier configuration."

         GROUP mplsIdIccOperatorGroup
         DESCRIPTION
             "This group is mandatory for devices which support
              ICC based identifier configuration."

         OBJECT   mplsIdGlobalId
         MIN-ACCESS  read-only
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 31]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


         DESCRIPTION
           "Write access is not required."

         OBJECT   mplsIdNodeId
         MIN-ACCESS  read-only
         DESCRIPTION
           "Write access is not required."

         OBJECT   mplsIdCc
         MIN-ACCESS  read-only
         DESCRIPTION
           "Write access is not required."

         OBJECT   mplsIdIcc
         MIN-ACCESS  read-only
         DESCRIPTION
           "Write access is not required."

         ::= { mplsIdCompliances 2 }

     -- Units of conformance.

         mplsIdIpOperatorGroup OBJECT-GROUP
               OBJECTS { mplsIdGlobalId,
                         mplsIdNodeId
               }
               STATUS  current
               DESCRIPTION
                   "The objects in this group are optional for ICC based
                    node."
               ::= { mplsIdGroups 1 }

         mplsIdIccOperatorGroup OBJECT-GROUP
               OBJECTS { mplsIdNodeId,
                         mplsIdCc,
                         mplsIdIcc

               }
               STATUS  current
               DESCRIPTION
                  "The objects in this group are optional for IP based
                   node."
               ::= { mplsIdGroups 2 }

    -- MPLS-ID-STD-MIB module ends
    END

12. MPLS LSR Extension MIB definitions
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 32]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


   MPLS-LSR-EXT-STD-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

   IMPORTS
      MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE
         FROM SNMPv2-SMI                                 -- [RFC2578]
      MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP
         FROM SNMPv2-CONF                                -- [RFC2580]
      mplsStdMIB
         FROM MPLS-TC-STD-MIB                            -- [RFC3811]
      RowPointer
         FROM SNMPv2-TC                                  -- [RFC2579]
      mplsXCIndex, mplsXCInSegmentIndex, mplsXCOutSegmentIndex,
      mplsInterfaceGroup, mplsInSegmentGroup, mplsOutSegmentGroup, 
      mplsXCGroup, mplsLsrNotificationGroup
         FROM MPLS-LSR-STD-MIB;                          -- [RFC3813]

   mplsLsrExtStdMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
      LAST-UPDATED
         "201412120000Z" -- December 12, 2014
      ORGANIZATION
         "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Working Group"
      CONTACT-INFO
         "
                Venkatesan Mahalingam
                Dell Inc,
                5450 Great America Parkway,
                Santa Clara, CA 95054, USA
          Email: venkat.mahalingams@gmail.com

                Kannan KV Sampath
                Redeem,
                India
          Email: kannankvs@gmail.com

                Sam Aldrin
                Huawei Technologies
                2330 Central Express Way,
                Santa Clara, CA 95051, USA

          Email:  aldrin.ietf@gmail.com

               Thomas D. Nadeau
         Email: tnadeau@lucidvision.com
        "
      DESCRIPTION
          "Copyright (c) 2014 IETF Trust and the persons identified
           as the document authors.  All rights reserved.

 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 33]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


           This MIB module contains generic object definitions for 
           MPLS LSR in transport networks."

      -- Revision history.

      REVISION
        "201412120000Z" -- December 12, 2014
      DESCRIPTION
           "MPLS LSR specific MIB objects extension"

      ::= { mplsStdMIB yyy } -- yyy to be replaced with correct value


   -- notifications
   mplsLsrExtNotifications OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { mplsLsrExtStdMIB 0 }

   -- tables, scalars
   mplsLsrExtObjects       OBJECT IDENTIFIER
                            ::= { mplsLsrExtStdMIB 1 }
   -- conformance
   mplsLsrExtConformance   OBJECT IDENTIFIER
                            ::= { mplsLsrExtStdMIB 2 }

   -- MPLS LSR common objects
   mplsXCExtTable  OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX        SEQUENCE OF MplsXCExtEntry
       MAX-ACCESS    not-accessible
       STATUS        current
       DESCRIPTION
          "This table sparse augments the mplsXCTable of
           MPLS-LSR-STD-MIB [RFC3813] to provide MPLS-TP specific
           information about associated tunnel information"
       REFERENCE
          "1. Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switching
           Router (LSR) Management Information Base (MIB), RFC 3813."
   ::= { mplsLsrExtObjects 1 }

   mplsXCExtEntry  OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX        MplsXCExtEntry
       MAX-ACCESS    not-accessible

       STATUS        current
       DESCRIPTION

          "An entry in this table sparsely extends the cross connect
           information represented by an entry in
           the mplsXCTable in MPLS-LSR-STD-MIB [RFC3813] through
           a sparse augmentation.  An entry can be created by
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 34]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


           a network operator via SNMP SET commands, or in
           response to signaling protocol events."
       REFERENCE
          "1. Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switching
           Router (LSR) Management Information Base (MIB), RFC 3813."


     INDEX { mplsXCIndex, mplsXCInSegmentIndex,
           mplsXCOutSegmentIndex }
    ::= { mplsXCExtTable 1 }

   MplsXCExtEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
      mplsXCExtTunnelPointer        RowPointer,
      mplsXCExtOppositeDirXCPtr     RowPointer
   }

   mplsXCExtTunnelPointer OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX        RowPointer
       MAX-ACCESS    read-only
       STATUS        current
       DESCRIPTION
          "This read-only object indicates the back pointer to
           the tunnel entry segment.
           The only valid value for Tunnel Pointer is
           mplsTunnelTable entry."
       REFERENCE
          "1. Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switching
           Router (LSR) Management Information Base (MIB), RFC 3813."
    ::= { mplsXCExtEntry 1 }

   mplsXCExtOppositeDirXCPtr OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX        RowPointer
       MAX-ACCESS    read-create
       STATUS        current
       DESCRIPTION
          "This object indicates the pointer to the opposite
           direction XC entry.  This object cannot be modified if
           mplsXCRowStatus for the corresponding entry in the
           mplsXCTable is active(1). If this pointer is not set or
           removed, mplsXCOperStatus should be set to down(2)."
       REFERENCE
          "1. Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switching
           Router (LSR) Management Information Base (MIB), RFC 3813."
    ::= { mplsXCExtEntry 2 }

    mplsLsrExtCompliances
       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { mplsLsrExtConformance 1 }

 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 35]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


    mplsLsrExtGroups
       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { mplsLsrExtConformance 2 }

    -- Compliance requirement for fully compliant implementations.

    mplsLsrExtModuleFullCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Compliance statement for agents that provide full support
            for MPLS-LSR-EXT-STD-MIB.
            The mandatory group has to be implemented by all LSRs
            that originate, terminate, or act as transit for
            TE-LSPs/tunnels.
            In addition, depending on the type of tunnels supported,
            other groups become mandatory as explained below."

     MODULE MPLS-LSR-STD-MIB -- The MPLS-LSR-STD-MIB, RFC3813

     MANDATORY-GROUPS {
       mplsInSegmentGroup,
       mplsOutSegmentGroup,
       mplsXCGroup,
       mplsLsrNotificationGroup
     }

     MODULE -- this module




     MANDATORY-GROUPS    {
       mplsXCExtGroup
     }

     ::= { mplsLsrExtCompliances 1 }

    -- Compliance requirement for implementations that provide
    -- read-only access.

     mplsLsrExtModuleReadOnlyCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
       STATUS current
       DESCRIPTION
          "Compliance requirement for implementations that only
           provide read-only support for MPLS-LSR-EXT-STD-MIB.
           Such devices can then be monitored but cannot be
           configured using this MIB module."


 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 36]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


     MODULE MPLS-LSR-STD-MIB

     MANDATORY-GROUPS {
         mplsInterfaceGroup,
         mplsInSegmentGroup,
         mplsOutSegmentGroup
     }

     MODULE -- this module

     GROUP mplsXCExtReadOnlyObjectsGroup
     DESCRIPTION
           "This group is mandatory for devices which support
            opposite direction XC configuration of tunnels."

     -- mplsXCExtTable	 		
          OBJECT mplsXCExtOppositeDirXCPtr	 		
          MIN-ACCESS   read-only	 		
          DESCRIPTION	 		
              "Write access is not required.	 		
               This object indicates the pointer to the opposite	 		
               direction XC entry. The only valid value for XC	 		
               Pointer is mplsXCTable entry."	 		
          ::= { mplsLsrExtCompliances 2 }

     -- Units of conformance.

     mplsXCExtGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
     OBJECTS {
         mplsXCExtTunnelPointer,
         mplsXCExtOppositeDirXCPtr
     }
     STATUS  current
     DESCRIPTION
         "This object should be supported in order to access
         the tunnel entry from XC entry."
     ::= { mplsLsrExtGroups 1 }

     mplsXCExtReadOnlyObjectsGroup OBJECT-GROUP
     OBJECTS { 
         mplsXCExtTunnelPointer,
         mplsXCExtOppositeDirXCPtr 
     }
     STATUS  current
     DESCRIPTION
         "This Object is needed to associate the opposite direction
         (forward/reverse) XC entry."
     ::= { mplsLsrExtGroups 2 }
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 37]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


    -- MPLS-LSR-EXT-STD-MIB module ends
    END


13. MPLS Tunnel Extension MIB definitions

     MPLS-TE-EXT-STD-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

     IMPORTS
        MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE
           FROM SNMPv2-SMI                               -- [RFC2578]
        MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP
           FROM SNMPv2-CONF                              -- [RFC2580]
        TruthValue, RowStatus, RowPointer, StorageType
           FROM SNMPv2-TC                                -- [RFC2579]
        IndexIntegerNextFree
           FROM DIFFSERV-MIB                             -- [RFC3289]
        MplsGlobalId, MplsNodeId, MplsCcId, MplsIccId
           FROM MPLS-TC-EXT-STD-MIB
        mplsStdMIB, MplsTunnelIndex, MplsTunnelInstanceIndex,
        MplsExtendedTunnelId
           FROM MPLS-TC-STD-MIB                          -- [RFC3811]
        mplsTunnelIndex, mplsTunnelInstance, mplsTunnelIngressLSRId,
        mplsTunnelEgressLSRId
           FROM MPLS-TE-STD-MIB                          -- [RFC3812]
        ;

     mplsTeExtStdMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
        LAST-UPDATED
            "201412120000Z" -- December 12, 2014
        ORGANIZATION
           "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Working Group"
        CONTACT-INFO
           "
                  Venkatesan Mahalingam
                  Dell Inc,
                  5450 Great America Parkway,
                  Santa Clara, CA 95054, USA
            Email: venkat.mahalingams@gmail.com

                  Kannan KV Sampath
                  Redeem,
                  India
            Email: kannankvs@gmail.com

                  Sam Aldrin
                  Huawei Technologies
                  2330 Central Express Way,
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 38]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


                  Santa Clara, CA 95051, USA
            Email:  aldrin.ietf@gmail.com

               Thomas D. Nadeau
         Email: tnadeau@lucidvision.com
          "
        DESCRIPTION
            "Copyright (c) 2014 IETF Trust and the persons identified
             as the document authors.  All rights reserved.

             This MIB module contains generic object definitions for
             MPLS Traffic Engineering in transport networks."


        -- Revision history.

        REVISION
           "201412120000Z" -- December 12, 2014

        DESCRIPTION
             "MPLS TE MIB objects extension"

        ::= { mplsStdMIB zzz } -- zzz to be replaced
                               -- with correct value

     -- Top level components of this MIB module.


     -- tables, scalars
     mplsTeExtObjects       OBJECT IDENTIFIER
                                      ::= { mplsTeExtStdMIB 0 }
     -- conformance
     mplsTeExtConformance   OBJECT IDENTIFIER
                                      ::= { mplsTeExtStdMIB 1 }

    -- Start of MPLS Transport Profile Node configuration table

    mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigLocalIdNext OBJECT-TYPE
     SYNTAX        IndexIntegerNextFree (0..16777215)
     MAX-ACCESS    read-only
     STATUS        current
     DESCRIPTION
        "This object contains an unused value for
         mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigLocalId, or a zero to indicate
         that none exist. Negative values are not allowed,
         as they do not correspond to valid values of
         mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigLocalId."
      ::= { mplsTeExtObjects 1 }
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 39]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


      mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX        SEQUENCE OF MplsTunnelExtNodeConfigEntry
       MAX-ACCESS    not-accessible
       STATUS        current
       DESCRIPTION
         "This table allows the operator to map a node or
          LSR Identifier (IP compatible [Global_ID::Node_ID] or 
          ICC based [ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID]) with a local
          identifier.

          This table is created to reuse the existing
          mplsTunnelTable for MPLS based transport network
          tunnels also.

          Since the MPLS tunnel's Ingress/Egress LSR identifiers'
          size (Unsigned32) value is not compatible for
          MPLS-TP tunnel i.e. Global_ID::Node_ID of size 8 bytes and
          ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID of size 12 bytes, there exists a 
          need to map the Global_ID::Node_ID or ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID
          with the local identifier of size 4 bytes (Unsigned32) value
          in order to index (Ingress/Egress LSR identifier) 
          the existing mplsTunnelTable."

       ::= { mplsTeExtObjects 2 }

      mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigEntry OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX        MplsTunnelExtNodeConfigEntry
       MAX-ACCESS    not-accessible
       STATUS        current
       DESCRIPTION
          "An entry in this table represents a mapping
          identification for the operator or service provider
          with node or LSR.

          As per [RFC6370], IP compatible mapping is represented
          as Global_ID::Node_ID.

          As per [RFC6923], the CC and the ICC form the ICC_Operator_ID
          as CC::ICC and ICC compatible mapping is represented
          as ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID.

          Note: Each entry in this table should have a unique
          [Global_ID and Node_ID] or [CC::ICC and Node_ID] combination."
          INDEX { mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigLocalId }
          ::= { mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable 1 }

      MplsTunnelExtNodeConfigEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
            mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigLocalId     MplsExtendedTunnelId,
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 40]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


            mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigGlobalId    MplsGlobalId,
            mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigCcId        MplsCcId,
            mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigIccId       MplsIccId,
            mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigNodeId      MplsNodeId,
            mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigIccValid    TruthValue,
            mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigStorageType StorageType,
            mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigRowStatus   RowStatus

      }

      mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigLocalId  OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX        MplsExtendedTunnelId
         MAX-ACCESS    not-accessible
         STATUS        current
         DESCRIPTION
           "This object is used in accommodating the bigger
            size Global_ID::Node_ID and/or the ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID
            with lower size LSR identifier in order to index 
            the mplsTunnelTable.

            The Local Identifier is configured between 0 and 16777215,
            as valid IP address range starts from 16777216(01.00.00.00).
            This range is chosen to determine whether the 
            mplsTunnelTable's Ingress/Egress LSR-id is an IP address or
            Local identifier. If the configured range is not an
            IP address, the operator is expected to retrieve the
            complete information (Global_ID::Node_ID or
            ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID) from 
            mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable.
            This way, existing mplsTunnelTable is reused for
            bidirectional tunnel extensions for MPLS based transport
            networks.

            The Local Identifier allows the operator to assign
            a unique identifier to map Global_ID::Node_ID and/or
            ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID. As this Local Identifier is unique
            within the node and the same syntax of this object can be
            used for MPLS-TE tunnel also, it is up to the operator/local
            management entity to choose non-conflicting value for
            indexing the MPLS and MPLS-TP tunnel entries."
         ::= { mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigEntry 1 }


      mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigGlobalId  OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX        MplsGlobalId
         MAX-ACCESS    read-create
         STATUS        current
         DESCRIPTION
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 41]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


           "This object indicates the Global Operator Identifier.
            This object has no meaning when 
            mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigIccValid is set true."
         REFERENCE
               "MPLS Transport Profile (MPLS-TP) Identifiers [RFC6370]
                Section 3."
         ::= { mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigEntry 2 }

      mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigCcId OBJECT-TYPE
           SYNTAX      MplsCcId
           MAX-ACCESS  read-create
           STATUS      current
           DESCRIPTION
              "This object allows the operator or service provider to
               configure a unique MPLS-TP ITU-T Country Code (CC)
               either for Ingress ID or Egress ID.

               This object has no meaning when 
               mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigIccValid is set false."
              REFERENCE
                 "MPLS-TP Identifiers Following ITU-T Conventions, 
                 [RFC6923] Section 3"
         ::= { mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigEntry 3 }

         mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigIccId OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX      MplsIccId
              MAX-ACCESS  read-create
              STATUS      current
              DESCRIPTION
                 "This object allows the operator or service provider to
                  configure a unique MPLS-TP ITU-T Carrier Code (ICC)
                  either for Ingress ID or Egress ID.

               This object has no meaning when 
               mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigIccValid is set false."
              REFERENCE
                 "MPLS-TP Identifiers Following ITU-T Conventions, 
                  [RFC6923] Section 3"
         ::= { mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigEntry 4 }

         mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigNodeId  OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX        MplsNodeId
            MAX-ACCESS    read-create
            STATUS        current
            DESCRIPTION
               "This object indicates the Node_ID within the scope
                of a Global_ID or ICC_Operator_ID."
            REFERENCE
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 42]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


                "MPLS Transport Profile (MPLS-TP) Identifiers [RFC6370]
                 Section 4."
            ::= { mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigEntry 5 }

         mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigIccValid  OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX        TruthValue
            MAX-ACCESS    read-create
            STATUS        current
            DESCRIPTION
               "Denotes whether or not this entry uses
                mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigCcId, 
                mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigIccId and 
                mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigNodeId for mapping
                the ICC based identifiers with the local identifier.
                Note that if this variable is set to false then the
                mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigGlobalId and
                mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigNodeId objects should have
                the valid information."
            DEFVAL { false }
              ::= { mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigEntry 6 }

         mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigStorageType OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX        StorageType
            MAX-ACCESS    read-create
            STATUS        current
            DESCRIPTION
             "This variable indicates the storage type for this
              object.
              Conceptual rows having the value 'permanent'
              need not allow write-access to any columnar
              objects in the row."
            DEFVAL { volatile }
            ::= { mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigEntry 7 }

      mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigRowStatus OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX        RowStatus
         MAX-ACCESS    read-create
         STATUS        current
         DESCRIPTION
            "This object allows the operator to create, modify,
             and/or delete a row in this table."
         ::= { mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigEntry 8 }


     -- End of MPLS Transport Profile Node configuration table

     -- Start of MPLS Transport Profile Node IP compatible
     -- mapping table
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 43]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


    mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapTable OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX        SEQUENCE OF MplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapEntry

       MAX-ACCESS    not-accessible
       STATUS        current
       DESCRIPTION
           "This read-only table allows the operator to retrieve
            the local identifier for a given Global_ID::Node_ID in an IP
            compatible operator environment.

            This table MAY be used in on-demand and/or proactive

            OAM operations to get the Ingress/Egress LSR identifier
            (Local Identifier) from Src-Global_Node_ID
            or Dst-Global_Node_ID. The Ingress and Egress LSR
            identifiers are used to retrieve the tunnel entry.

            This table returns nothing when the associated entry
            is not defined in mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable."
       ::= { mplsTeExtObjects 3 }

      mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapEntry OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX        MplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapEntry
       MAX-ACCESS    not-accessible
       STATUS        current
       DESCRIPTION
             "An entry in this table represents a mapping of
              Global_ID::Node_ID with the local identifier.

              An entry in this table is created automatically when
              the Local identifier is associated with Global_ID and
              Node_Id in the mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable.

              Note: Each entry in this table should have a unique
              Global_ID and Node_ID combination."
        INDEX { mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapGlobalId,
                mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapNodeId
              }
        ::= { mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapTable 1 }

      MplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
            mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapGlobalId    MplsGlobalId,
            mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapNodeId      MplsNodeId,
            mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapLocalId     MplsExtendedTunnelId
      }

      mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapGlobalId  OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX        MplsGlobalId
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 44]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


         MAX-ACCESS    not-accessible
         STATUS        current
         DESCRIPTION
           "This object indicates the Global_ID."
         ::= { mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapEntry 1 }

      mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapNodeId  OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX        MplsNodeId
         MAX-ACCESS    not-accessible
         STATUS        current
         DESCRIPTION
           "This object indicates the Node_ID within the

            operator."
         ::= { mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapEntry 2 }

      mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapLocalId  OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX        MplsExtendedTunnelId
         MAX-ACCESS    read-only
         STATUS        current
         DESCRIPTION
           "This object contains an IP compatible local identifier
            which is defined in mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable."
         ::= { mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapEntry 3 }

      -- End MPLS Transport Profile Node IP compatible table

      -- Start of MPLS Transport Profile Node ICC based table

      mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapTable OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX        SEQUENCE OF MplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapEntry
       MAX-ACCESS    not-accessible
       STATUS        current
       DESCRIPTION
          "This read-only table allows the operator to retrieve
           the local identifier for a given ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID
           in an ICC operator environment.

           This table MAY be used in on-demand and/or proactive
           OAM operations to get the Ingress/Egress LSR
           identifier (Local Identifier) from Src-ICC
           or Dst-ICC. The Ingress and Egress LSR
           identifiers are used to retrieve the tunnel entry.
           This table returns nothing when the associated entry
           is not defined in mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable."
       ::= { mplsTeExtObjects 4 }

      mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapEntry OBJECT-TYPE
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 45]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


       SYNTAX        MplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapEntry
       MAX-ACCESS    not-accessible
       STATUS        current
       DESCRIPTION
             "An entry in this table represents a mapping of 
              ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID with the local identifier.

              An entry in this table is created automatically when
              the Local identifier is associated with 
              ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID in 
              the mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable."
        INDEX { mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapCcId,
                mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapIccId,
                mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapNodeId }
        ::= { mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapTable 1 }


      MplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
            mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapCcId       MplsCcId,
            mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapIccId      MplsIccId,
            mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapNodeId     MplsNodeId,
            mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapLocalId    MplsExtendedTunnelId
      }

      mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapCcId OBJECT-TYPE
           SYNTAX      MplsCcId
           MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
           STATUS      current
           DESCRIPTION
              "This object allows the operator or service provider to
               configure a unique MPLS-TP ITU-T Country Code (CC)
               either for Ingress or Egress LSR ID.

               The CC is a string of two alphabetic characters
               represented with upper case letters (i.e., A-Z)."
           ::= { mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapEntry 1 }

           mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapIccId OBJECT-TYPE
                SYNTAX      MplsIccId
                MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
                STATUS      current
                DESCRIPTION
                   "This object allows the operator or service provider
                    to configure a unique MPLS-TP ITU-T Carrier
                    Code (ICC) either for Ingress or Egress LSR ID.

               The ICC is a string of one to six characters, each
               character being either alphabetic (i.e.  A-Z) or
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 46]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


               numeric (i.e. 0-9) characters. Alphabetic characters
               in the ICC should be represented with upper case
               letters."
           ::= { mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapEntry 2 }

           mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapNodeId  OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX        MplsNodeId
              MAX-ACCESS    not-accessible
              STATUS        current
              DESCRIPTION
                "This object indicates the Node_ID within the
                 ICC based operator."
           ::= { mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapEntry 3}

      mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapLocalId  OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX        MplsExtendedTunnelId
         MAX-ACCESS    read-only
         STATUS        current
         DESCRIPTION
           "This object contains an ICC based local identifier
            which is defined in mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable."
      ::= { mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapEntry 4 }

   -- End MPLS Transport Profile Node ICC based table

   -- Start of MPLS Tunnel table extension

     mplsTunnelExtTable OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX        SEQUENCE OF MplsTunnelExtEntry
       MAX-ACCESS    not-accessible
       STATUS        current
       DESCRIPTION
         "This table represents extensions to mplsTunnelTable 
          in order to support MPLS-TP tunnels.

          As per MPLS-TP Identifiers [RFC6370], LSP_ID for IP based
          co-routed bidirectional tunnel,


          A1-{Global_ID::Node_ID::Tunnel_Num}::Z9-{Global_ID::
          Node_ID::Tunnel_Num}::LSP_Num

          LSP_ID for IP based associated bidirectional tunnel,
          A1-{Global_ID::Node_ID::Tunnel_Num::LSP_Num}::
          Z9-{Global_ID::Node_ID::Tunnel_Num::LSP_Num}

          mplsTunnelTable is reused for forming the LSP_ID
          as follows,
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 47]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


          Source Tunnel_Num is mapped with mplsTunnelIndex,
          Source Node_ID is mapped with
          mplsTunnelIngressLSRId, Destination Node_ID is
          mapped with mplsTunnelEgressLSRId LSP_Num is mapped with
          mplsTunnelInstance.

          Source Global_ID::Node_ID and/or ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID and
          Destination Global_ID::Node_ID and/or ICC_Operator_ID::Node-ID
          are maintained in the mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable and
          mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigLocalId is used to create an entry
          in mplsTunnelTable."
       REFERENCE
             "MPLS Transport Profile (MPLS-TP) Identifiers [RFC6370]."
       ::= { mplsTeExtObjects 5 }

      mplsTunnelExtEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX        MplsTunnelExtEntry
      MAX-ACCESS    not-accessible
      STATUS        current
      DESCRIPTION
            "An entry in this table represents MPLS-TP
             specific additional tunnel configurations."
      INDEX {
        mplsTunnelIndex,
        mplsTunnelInstance,
        mplsTunnelIngressLSRId,
        mplsTunnelEgressLSRId
       }
       ::= { mplsTunnelExtTable 1 }

      MplsTunnelExtEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
           mplsTunnelExtOppositeDirPtr          RowPointer,
           mplsTunnelExtOppositeDirTnlValid     TruthValue,
           mplsTunnelExtDestTnlIndex            MplsTunnelIndex,
           mplsTunnelExtDestTnlLspIndex         MplsTunnelInstanceIndex,
           mplsTunnelExtDestTnlValid            TruthValue,
           mplsTunnelExtIngressLSRLocalIdValid  TruthValue,
           mplsTunnelExtEgressLSRLocalIdValid   TruthValue

      }

      mplsTunnelExtOppositeDirPtr  OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX        RowPointer
         MAX-ACCESS    read-create
         STATUS        current
         DESCRIPTION
            "This object points to the opposite direction tunnel entry."
      ::= { mplsTunnelExtEntry 1 }
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 48]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


      mplsTunnelExtOppositeDirTnlValid  OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX        TruthValue
         MAX-ACCESS    read-create
         STATUS        current
         DESCRIPTION
            "Denotes whether or not this tunnel uses
             mplsTunnelExtOppositeDirPtr for identifying the opposite
             direction tunnel information. Note that if this variable
             is set to true then the mplsTunnelExtOppositeDirPtr should
             point to the first accessible row of the valid opposite
             direction tunnel."
         DEFVAL { false }
           ::= { mplsTunnelExtEntry 2 }

      mplsTunnelExtDestTnlIndex  OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX        MplsTunnelIndex
         MAX-ACCESS    read-create
         STATUS        current
         DESCRIPTION
            "This object is applicable only for the bidirectional
             tunnel that has the forward and reverse LSPs in the 
             different tunnel entries.

             The values of this object and the
             mplsTunnelExtDestTnlLspIndex object together can be used
             to identify an opposite direction LSP i.e. if the
             mplsTunnelIndex and mplsTunnelInstance hold the value
             for forward LSP, this object and
             mplsTunnelExtDestTnlLspIndex can be used to retrieve
             the reverse direction LSP and vice versa.

             This object and mplsTunnelExtDestTnlLspIndex values
             provide the first two indices of tunnel entry and
             the remaining indices can be derived as follows,
             the Ingress and Egress Identifiers should be
             swapped in order to index the other direction tunnel."
            ::= { mplsTunnelExtEntry 3 }

      mplsTunnelExtDestTnlLspIndex  OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX        MplsTunnelInstanceIndex
         MAX-ACCESS    read-create
         STATUS        current
         DESCRIPTION
            "This object is applicable only for the bidirectional
             tunnel that has the forward and reverse LSPs in the 
             different tunnel entries. This object holds 
             the instance index of the opposite direction tunnel."
            ::= { mplsTunnelExtEntry 4 }
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 49]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


      mplsTunnelExtDestTnlValid  OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX        TruthValue
         MAX-ACCESS    read-create
         STATUS        current
         DESCRIPTION
            "Denotes whether or not this tunnel uses
             mplsTunnelExtDestTnlIndex and
             mplsTunnelExtDestTnlLspIndex for identifying
             the opposite direction tunnel information. Note that if
             this variable is set to true then the
             mplsTunnelExtDestTnlIndex and
             mplsTunnelExtDestTnlLspIndex objects should have
             the valid opposite direction tunnel indices."
         DEFVAL { false }
           ::= { mplsTunnelExtEntry 5 }

      mplsTunnelExtIngressLSRLocalIdValid OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX        TruthValue
         MAX-ACCESS    read-create
         STATUS        current
         DESCRIPTION
          "This object denotes whether the mplsTunnelIngressLSRId
           contains the local value, which is used to reference
           the complete Ingress Global_ID::Node_ID or ICC_Operator_ID
           from the mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable.

           If this object is set to FALSE, mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable
           will not contain an entry to reference local identifier with
           Global_ID::Node_ID or ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID value.

           This object is set to FALSE for legacy implementations like
           MPLS TE tunnels where mplsTunnelIngressId itself provides
           complete Ingress LSRId."
         REFERENCE     
           "MPLS-TE-STD-MIB [RFC3812], Section 11. 
            mplsTunnelIngressLSRId object in mplsTunnelTable."
         DEFVAL { false }
           ::= { mplsTunnelExtEntry 6 }

      mplsTunnelExtEgressLSRLocalIdValid OBJECT-TYPE
         SYNTAX        TruthValue
         MAX-ACCESS    read-create
         STATUS        current
         DESCRIPTION
          "This object denotes whether the mplsTunnelEgressLSRId
           contains the local value, which is used to reference
           the complete Egress Global_ID::Node_ID or 
           ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID from 
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 50]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


           the mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable.

           If this object is set to FALSE, mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable
           will not contain an entry to reference local identifier with
           Global_ID::Node_ID or ICC_Operator_ID::Node_ID value.

           This object is set to FALSE for legacy implementations like
           MPLS TE tunnels where mplsTunnelEgressId itself provides
           complete Egress LSRId."
         REFERENCE     
           "MPLS-TE-STD-MIB [RFC3812], Section 11. 
            mplsTunnelEgressLSRId object in mplsTunnelTable."
         DEFVAL { false }
           ::= { mplsTunnelExtEntry 7 }

      -- End of MPLS Tunnel table extension

     -- Module compliance.

     mplsTeExtCompliances
        OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { mplsTeExtConformance 1 }

     mplsTeExtGroups
        OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { mplsTeExtConformance 2 }

     -- Compliance requirement for fully compliant implementations.

     mplsTeExtModuleFullCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
             "Compliance statement for agents that provide full
               support the MPLS-TE-EXT-STD-MIB module."

        MODULE -- this module

           -- The mandatory group has to be implemented by all
           -- LSRs that originate/terminate MPLS-TP tunnels.
           -- In addition, depending on the type of tunnels
           -- supported, other groups become mandatory as

           -- explained below.

           MANDATORY-GROUPS    {
              mplsTunnelExtGroup
           }

           GROUP mplsTunnelExtIpOperatorGroup
           DESCRIPTION
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 51]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


               "This group is mandatory for devices which support
                configuration of IP based identifier tunnels."

           GROUP mplsTunnelExtIccOperatorGroup
           DESCRIPTION
               "This group is mandatory for devices which support
                configuration of ICC based tunnels."

            ::= { mplsTeExtCompliances 1 }

     -- Compliance requirement for read-only implementations.

     mplsTeExtModuleReadOnlyCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Compliance statement for agents that only provide
             read-only support for MPLS-TE-EXT-STD-MIB module."

        MODULE -- this module

     MANDATORY-GROUPS    {
        mplsTunnelExtGroup
     }

     GROUP mplsTunnelExtIpOperatorGroup
     DESCRIPTION
         "This group is mandatory for devices which support
          configuration of IP based identifier tunnels."

     GROUP mplsTunnelExtIccOperatorGroup
     DESCRIPTION
         "This group is mandatory for devices which support
          configuration of ICC based tunnels."

     -- mplsTunnelExtTable

     OBJECT      mplsTunnelExtOppositeDirPtr
     MIN-ACCESS  read-only
     DESCRIPTION
           "Write access is not required."

     OBJECT      mplsTunnelExtOppositeDirTnlValid
     MIN-ACCESS  read-only
     DESCRIPTION
           "Write access is not required."

     OBJECT      mplsTunnelExtDestTnlIndex
     MIN-ACCESS  read-only
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 52]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


     DESCRIPTION
           "Write access is not required."

     OBJECT      mplsTunnelExtDestTnlLspIndex
     MIN-ACCESS  read-only
     DESCRIPTION
           "Write access is not required."

     OBJECT      mplsTunnelExtDestTnlValid
     MIN-ACCESS  read-only
     DESCRIPTION
           "Write access is not required."

     OBJECT      mplsTunnelExtIngressLSRLocalIdValid
     MIN-ACCESS  read-only
     DESCRIPTION
           "Write access is not required."

     OBJECT      mplsTunnelExtEgressLSRLocalIdValid
     MIN-ACCESS  read-only
     DESCRIPTION
           "Write access is not required."

     OBJECT      mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigGlobalId
     MIN-ACCESS  read-only
     DESCRIPTION
           "Write access is not required."

     OBJECT      mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigNodeId
     MIN-ACCESS  read-only
     DESCRIPTION
           "Write access is not required."

     OBJECT      mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigStorageType
     MIN-ACCESS  read-only
     DESCRIPTION
           "Write access is not required."

     OBJECT      mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigRowStatus
     SYNTAX      RowStatus { active(1) }
     MIN-ACCESS  read-only
     DESCRIPTION
           "Write access is not required."

     OBJECT      mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigCcId
     MIN-ACCESS  read-only
     DESCRIPTION
           "Write access is not required."
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 53]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


     OBJECT      mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigIccId
     MIN-ACCESS  read-only
     DESCRIPTION
           "Write access is not required."

     OBJECT      mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigIccValid
     MIN-ACCESS  read-only
     DESCRIPTION
           "Write access is not required."



          ::= { mplsTeExtCompliances 2 }

       -- Units of conformance.

       mplsTunnelExtGroup OBJECT-GROUP
          OBJECTS {
            mplsTunnelExtOppositeDirPtr,
            mplsTunnelExtOppositeDirTnlValid,
            mplsTunnelExtDestTnlIndex,
            mplsTunnelExtDestTnlLspIndex,
            mplsTunnelExtDestTnlValid,
            mplsTunnelExtIngressLSRLocalIdValid,
            mplsTunnelExtEgressLSRLocalIdValid
         }

        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
             "Necessary, but not sufficient, set of objects to
               implement tunnels.  In addition, depending on the
               operating environment, the following groups are
               mandatory."
        ::= { mplsTeExtGroups 1 }

     mplsTunnelExtIpOperatorGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS { mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigLocalIdNext,
                  mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigGlobalId,
                  mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigNodeId,
                  mplsTunnelExtNodeIpMapLocalId,  
                  mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigStorageType,
                  mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigRowStatus          
        }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
             "Object(s) needed to implement IP compatible tunnels."
        ::= { mplsTeExtGroups 2 }

 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 54]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


     mplsTunnelExtIccOperatorGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS { mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigLocalIdNext,
                  mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigCcId,
                  mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigIccId,
                  mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigNodeId,
                  mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigIccValid,
                  mplsTunnelExtNodeIccMapLocalId,
                  mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigStorageType,
                  mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigRowStatus     
        }
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
             "Object(s) needed to implement ICC based tunnels."
        ::= { mplsTeExtGroups 3 }

     -- MPLS-TE-EXT-STD-MIB module ends
     END

14. Security Consideration

   This document follows the security consideration mentioned in the
   section 12 of [RFC3812]. These security considerations are also
   applicable to the MIB objects and tables defined in this draft, which
   are identified as below.

   Security consideration for read-write and/or read-create objects is
   also applicable for

      - mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable, mplsTunnelExtTable and
        mplsXCExtTable collectively contain objects to provision MPLS-TP
        tunnels, tunnel hops, and tunnel resources.

   Some of the readable objects in this MIB module (i.e., objects with a
   MAX-ACCESS other than not-accessible) may be considered sensitive or
   vulnerable in some network environments.

      - mplsTunnelExtNodeConfigTable, mplsTunnelExtTable, 
        and mplsXCExtTable collectively show the MPLS-TP tunnel network 
        topology characteristics. If an Administrator does not want to
        reveal this information, then these tables should be considered 
        sensitive/vulnerable.

   When MIB is used to configure ICC_Operator_ID, as specified in
   [RFC6370], it should be considered sensitive operation. Hence proper
   protection should be taken to allow configuration via SET operation
   in order to ensure its purpose of providing globally unique MPLS-TP
   identifiers.

 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 55]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


15. IANA Considerations

   As described in [RFC4221], [RFC6639] and as requested in the MPLS-TC-
   STD-MIB [RFC3811], MPLS related standards track MIB modules should be
   rooted under the mplsStdMIB subtree.  There are 4 MPLS MIB Modules
   contained in this document, each of the following "IANA
   Considerations" subsections requests IANA for a new assignment under
   the mplsStdMIB subtree.  New assignments can only be made via a
   Standards Action as specified in [RFC5226].

15.1. IANA Considerations for MPLS-TC-EXT-STD-MIB

   IANA is requested to assign an OID { mplsStdMIB OID } to the MPLS-TC-
   EXT-STD-MIB module specified in this document.

15.2. IANA Considerations for MPLS-ID-STD-MIB
   IANA is requested to assign an OID { mplsStdMIB OID } to the MPLS-ID-
   STD-MIB module specified in this document.

15.3. IANA Considerations for MPLS-LSR-EXT-STD-MIB

   IANA is requested to assign an OID { mplsStdMIB OID } to the MPLS-
   LSR-EXT-STD-MIB module specified in this document.

15.4. IANA Considerations for MPLS-TE-EXT-STD-MIB

   IANA is requested to assign an OID { mplsStdMIB OID } to the MPLS-TE-
   EXT-STD-MIB module specified in this document.

16. References

16.1. Normative References

    [RFC2119] Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

    [RFC2578] McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., and J. Schoenwaelder,
              "Structure of Management Information Version 2 (SMIv2)",
              STD 58, RFC 2578, April 1999.

    [RFC2579] McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., and J. Schoenwaelder,
              "Textual Conventions for SMIv2", STD 58, RFC 2579, April
              1999.

    [RFC2580] McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., and J. Schoenwaelder,
              "Conformance Statements for SMIv2", STD 58, RFC 2580,
              April 1999.

 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 56]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


    [RFC3031] Rosen, E., Viswanathan, A., and R. Callon, "Multiprotocol
              Label Switching Architecture", RFC 3031, January 2001.

    [RFC3289]  Baker, F., Chan, K., and A. Smith, "Management          
              Information Base for the Differentiated Services          
              Architecture", RFC 3289, May 2002.

    [RFC3811] Nadeau, T., Ed., and J. Cucchiara, Ed., "Definitions of
              Textual Conventions (TCs) for Multiprotocol Label
              Switching (MPLS) Management", RFC 3811, June 2004.

    [RFC3812] Srinivasan, C., Viswanathan, A., and T. Nadeau,
              "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Traffic Engineering
              (TE) Management Information Base (MIB)", RFC 3812, June
              2004.

    [RFC3813] Srinivasan, C., Viswanathan, A., and T. Nadeau,
              "Multiprotocol Label Switching (MPLS) Label Switching
              (LSR) Router Management Information Base (MIB)", RFC 3813,
              June 2004.

    [RFC4802] Nadeau, T., Ed., and A. Farrel, Ed., "Generalized
              Multiprotocol Label Switching (GMPLS) Traffic Engineering
              Management Information Base", RFC 4802, February 2007.

    [RFC6370] Bocci, M., Swallow, G., and E. Gray, "MPLS Transport
              Profile (MPLS-TP) Identifiers", RFC 6370, September 2011.

    [RFC6923] Winter, R., Gray, E., Helvoort, H., and M. Betts, "MPLS-TP
              Identifiers Following ITU-T Conventions", RFC 6923, May
              2013

16.2.  Informative References


    [RFC3410] J. Case, R. Mundy, D. pertain, B.Stewart, "Introduction
              and Applicability Statement for Internet Standard
              Management Framework", RFC 3410, December 2002.

    [RFC4221] Nadeau, T., Srinivasan, C., and A. Farrel, "Multiprotocol
              Label Switching (MPLS) Management Overview", RFC 4221,
              November 2005.

    [RFC5226] Narten, T. and H. Alvestrand., "Guidelines for Writing an
              IANA Considerations Section in RFCs", BCP 26, RFC 5226,
              May 2008.

    [RFC5654] Niven-Jenkins, B., Ed., Brungard, D., Ed., Betts, M.,
 


Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 57]

INTERNET DRAFT                MPLS-TP MIB              December 14, 2014


              Ed.,Sprecher, N., and S. Ueno, "Requirements of an MPLS
              Transport Profile", RFC 5654, September 2009.

    [RFC6639] Venkatesan, M., King, D., "Multiprotocol Label Switching
              Transport Profile (MPLS-TP) MIB-Based Management
              Overview", RFC 6639, June 2012


17. Acknowledgments

   The authors would like to thank Francesco Fondelli, Josh Littlefield,
   Agrahara Kiran Koushik, Metrri Jain, Muly Ilan, Randy Presuhn, Adrian
   Farrel, Elwyn Davies and Tom Taylor for their valuable review and
   comments. A special thanks to Joan Cucchiara for really getting the
   MIB modules into shape.

18. Authors' Addresses

   Venkatesan Mahalingam
   Dell Inc.
   5450 Great America Parkway,
   Santa Clara, CA 95054, USA
   Email: venkat.mahalingams@gmail.com

   Sam Aldrin
   Huawei Technologies
   2330 Central Express Way,
   Santa Clara, CA 95051, USA
   Email:  aldrin.ietf@gmail.com

   Thomas D. Nadeau
   Brocade
   Email: tnadeau@lucidvision.com

   Kannan KV Sampath
   Redeem
   India
   Email: kannankvs@gmail.com













Venkatesan,  et al.      Expires June 17, 2015                 [Page 58]
