


Network Working Group                              Steve Kille, WG Chair
Internet Draft                                         Ned Freed, Editor
                                      <draft-ietf-madman-nsm-mib-01.txt>



                    Network Services Monitoring MIB

                               March 1996




                          Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups. Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months.
Internet-Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
documents at any time.  It is not appropriate to use Internet-Drafts as
reference material or to cite them other than as a "working draft" or
"work in progress".

To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
1id-abstracts.txt listing contained in the Internet-Drafts Shadow
Directories on ds.internic.net (US East Coast), nic.nordu.net (Europe),
ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast), or munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim).


1.  Introduction

There are a wide range of networked applications for which it is
appropriate to provide SNMP Monitoring.  This includes both TCP/IP and
OSI applications.  This document defines a MIB which contains the
elements common to the monitoring of any network service application.
This information includes a table of all monitorable network service
applications, a count of the associations (connections) to each
application, and basic information about the parameters and status of
each application-related association.

This MIB may be used on its own for any application, and for most simple
applications this will suffice.  This MIB is also designed to serve as a











Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


building block which can be used in conjunction with application-
specific monitoring and management.  Two examples of this are MIBs
defining additional variables for monitoring a Message Transfer Agent
(MTA) service or a Directory Service Agent (DSA) service. It is expected
that further MIBs of this nature will be specified.

This MIB does not attempt to provide facilities for management of the
host or hosts the network service application runs on, nor does it
provide facilities for monitoring applications that provide something
other than a network service.  Host resource and general application
monitoring is handled by the Host Resources MIB.


2.  Table of Contents

1 Introduction ....................................................    1
2 Table of Contents ...............................................    2
3 The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework .........................    2
3.1 Object Definitions ............................................    3
4 Rationale for having a Network Services Monitoring MIB ..........    3
4.1 General Relationship to Other MIBs ............................    4
4.2 Restriction of Scope ..........................................    4
4.3 Relationship to Directory Services ............................    5
5 Application Objects .............................................    5
6 Definitions .....................................................    6
7 Changes made since RFC 1565 .....................................   19
8 Acknowledgements ................................................   20
9 References ......................................................   20
10 Security Considerations ........................................   20
11 Authors' Addresses .............................................   21


3.  The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework

The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework consists of four major
components.  They are:

o    RFC 1902 [1] which defines the SMI, the mechanisms used for
     describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.

o    RFC 1213 [2] defines MIB-II, the core set of managed objects for
     the Internet suite of protocols.

o    RFC 1445 [3] which defines the administrative and other
     architectural aspects of the framework.





Expires September 1996                                          [Page 2]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


o    RFC 1905 [4] which defines the protocol used for network access to
     managed objects.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.


3.1.  Object Definitions

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB. Objects in the MIB are defined using
the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) defined in the SMI.
In particular, each object type is named by an OBJECT IDENTIFIER, an
administratively assigned name. The object type together with an object
instance serves to uniquely identify a specific instantiation of the
object.  For human convenience, we often use a textual string, termed
the descriptor, to refer to the object type.


4.  Rationale for having a Network Services Monitoring MIB

Much effort has been expended in developing tools to manage lower layer
network facilities.  However, relatively little work has been done on
managing application layer entities.  It is neither efficient nor
reasonable to manage all aspects of application layer entities using
only lower layer information.  Moreover, the difficulty of managing
application entities in this way increases dramatically as application
entities become more complex.

This leads to a substantial need to monitor applications which provide
network services, particularly distributed components such as MTAs and
DSAs, by monitoring specific aspects of the application itself.  Reasons
to monitor such components include but are not limited to measuring
load, detecting broken connectivity, isolating system failures, and
locating congestion.

In order to manage network service applications effectively two
requirements must be met:

 (1)   It must be possible to monitor a large number of components
       (typical for a large organization).

 (2)   Application monitoring must be integrated into general network
       management.






Expires September 1996                                          [Page 3]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


This specification defines simple read-only access; this is sufficient
to determine up/down status and provide an indication of a broad class
of operational problems.


4.1.  General Relationship to Other MIBs

This MIB is intended to only provide facilities common to the monitoring
of any network service application.  It does not provide all the
facilities necessary to monitor any specific application.  Each specific
type of network service application is expected to have a MIB of its own
that makes use of these common facilities.


4.2.  Restriction of Scope

The framework provided here is very minimal; there is a lot more that
could be done. For example:

 (1)   General network service application configuration monitoring and
       control.

 (2)   Detailed examination and modification of individual entries in
       service-specific request queues.

 (3)   Probing to determine the status of a specific request (e.g. the
       location of a mail message with a specific message-id).

 (4)   Requesting that certain actions be performed (e.g. forcing an
       immediate connection and transfer of pending messages to some
       specific system).

All these capabilities are both impressive and useful.  However, these
capabilities would require provisions for strict security checking.
These capabilities would also mandate a much more complex design, with
many characteristics likely to be fairly implementation-specific.  As a
result such facilities are likely to be both contentious and difficult
to implement.

This document religiously keeps things simple and focuses on the basic
monitoring aspect of managing applications providing network services.
The goal here is to provide a framework which is simple, useful, and
widely implementable.







Expires September 1996                                          [Page 4]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


4.3.  Relationship to Directory Services

Use of and management of directory services already is tied up with
network service application management.  There are clearly many things
which could be dealt with by directory services and protocols.  We take
the line here that static configuration information is both provided by
and dealt with by directory services and protocols.  The emphasis here
is on transient application status.

By placing static information in the directory, the richness and linkage
of the directory information framework does not need to be repeated in
the MIB.  Static information is information which has a mean time to
change of the order of days or longer.

When information about network service applications is stored in the
directory (regardless of whether or not the network service application
makes direct use of the directory), it is recommended that a linkage be
established, so that:

 (1)   The managed object contains its own directory name.  This allows
       all directory information to be obtained by reference.  This will
       let a SNMP monitor capable of performing directory queries
       present this information to the manager in an appropriate format.
       It is intended that this will be the normal case.

 (2)   The directory will reference the location of the SNMP agent, so
       that an SNMP capable directory query agent could probe dynamic
       characteristics of the object.

 (3)   This approach could be extended further, so that the SNMP
       attributes are modelled as directory attributes.  This would
       dramatically simplify the design of directory service agents that
       use SNMP to obtain the information they need.


5.  Application Objects

This MIB defines a set of general purpose attributes which would be
appropriate for a range of applications that provide network services.
Both OSI and non-OSI services can be accomodated.  Additional tables
defined in extensions to this MIB provide attributes specific to
specific network services.

A table is defined which will have one row for each operational network
service application on the system.  The only static information held on





Expires September 1996                                          [Page 5]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


the application is its name.  All other static information should be
obtained from various directory services.  The applDirectoryName is an
external key, which allows an SNMP MIB entry to be cleanly related to
the X.500 Directory.  In SNMP terms, the applications are grouped in a
table called applTable, which is indexed by an integer key applIndex.

The type of the application will be determined by one or both of:

 (1)   Additional MIB variables specific to the applications.

 (2)   An association to the application of a specific protocol.


6.  Definitions

APPLICATION-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    OBJECT-TYPE, Counter32, Gauge32, MODULE-IDENTITY
      FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    mib-2
      FROM RFC1213-MIB
    DisplayString, TimeStamp, TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
      FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP
      FROM SNMPv2-CONF;


-- Textual conventions

-- DistinguishedName is used to refer to objects in the
-- directory.

DistinguishedName ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A Distinguished Name represented in accordance with
         RFC 1779 [5]."
    SYNTAX DisplayString











Expires September 1996                                          [Page 6]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


-- Uniform Resource Locators are stored in URLStrings.

URLString ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A Uniform Resource Locator represented in accordance
         with RFC 1738 [7]."
    SYNTAX DisplayString

application MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9603100000Z"
    ORGANIZATION "IETF Mail and Directory Management Working Group"
    CONTACT-INFO
      "        Ned Freed

       Postal: Innosoft International, Inc.
               1050 East Garvey Avenue South
               West Covina, CA 91790
               US

          Tel: +1 818 919 3600
          Fax: +1 818 919 3614

       E-Mail: ned@innosoft.com"
    DESCRIPTION
      "The MIB module describing network service applications"
    ::= {mib-2 27}

-- The basic applTable contains a list of the application
-- entities.

applTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF ApplEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The table holding objects which apply to all different
         kinds of applications providing network services.
         Each network service application capable of being
         monitored should have a single entry in this table."
    ::= {application 1}









Expires September 1996                                          [Page 7]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


applEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX ApplEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "An entry associated with a single network service
       application."
    INDEX {applIndex}
    ::= {applTable 1}

ApplEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    applIndex
        INTEGER,
    applName
        DisplayString,
    applDirectoryName
        DistinguishedName,
    applVersion
        DisplayString,
    applUptime
        TimeStamp,
    applOperStatus
        INTEGER,
    applLastChange
        TimeStamp,
    applInboundAssociations
        Gauge32,
    applOutboundAssociations
        Gauge32,
    applAccumulatedInboundAssociations
        Counter32,
    applAccumulatedOutboundAssociations
        Counter32,
    applLastInboundActivity
        TimeStamp,
    applLastOutboundActivity
        TimeStamp,
    applRejectedInboundAssociations
        Counter32,
    applFailedOutboundAssociations
        Counter32,









Expires September 1996                                          [Page 8]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


    applDescription
        DisplayString,
    applURL
        URLString
}

applIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX INTEGER (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "An index to uniquely identify the network service
       application. This attribute is the index used for
       lexicographic ordering of the table."
    ::= {applEntry 1}

applName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The name the network service application chooses to be
       known by."
    ::= {applEntry 2}

applDirectoryName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX DistinguishedName
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The Distinguished Name of the directory entry where
       static information about this application is stored.
       An empty string indicates that no information about
       the application is available in the directory."
    ::= {applEntry 3}

applVersion OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The version of network service application software.
       This field is usually defined by the vendor of the
       network service application software."
    ::= {applEntry 4}





Expires September 1996                                          [Page 9]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


applUptime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The value of sysUpTime at the time the network service
       application was last initialized.  If the application was
       last initialized prior to the last initialization of the
       network management subsystem, then this object contains
       a zero value."
    ::= {applEntry 5}

applOperStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX INTEGER {
      up(1),
      down(2),
      halted(3),
      congested(4),
      restarting(5),
      quiescing(6)
    }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "Indicates the operational status of the network service
       application. 'down' indicates that the network service is
       not available. 'up' indicates that the network service
       is operational and available.  'halted' indicates that the
       service is operational but not available.  'congested'
       indicates that the service is operational but no additional
       inbound associations can be accomodated.  'restarting'
       indicates that the service is currently unavailable but is
       in the process of restarting and will be available soon.
       'quiescing' indicates that service is currently operational
       but is in the process of shutting down. Additional inbound
       associations may be rejected by applications in the
       'quiescing' state."
    ::= {applEntry 6}












Expires September 1996                                         [Page 10]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


applLastChange OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The value of sysUpTime at the time the network service
       application entered its current operational state.  If
       the current state was entered prior to the last
       initialization of the local network management subsystem,
       then this object contains a zero value."
    ::= {applEntry 7}

applInboundAssociations OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Gauge32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The number of current associations to the network service
       application, where it is the responder.  An inbound
       assocation occurs when a another application successfully
       connects to this one."
    ::= {applEntry 8}

applOutboundAssociations OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Gauge32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The number of current associations to the network service
       application, where it is the initiator.  An outbound
       association occurs when this application successfully
       connects to another one."
    ::= {applEntry 9}

applAccumulatedInboundAssociations OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The total number of associations to the application entity
       since application initialization, where it was the responder."
    ::= {applEntry 10}








Expires September 1996                                         [Page 11]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


applAccumulatedOutboundAssociations OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The total number of associations to the application entity
       since application initialization, where it was the initiator."
    ::= {applEntry 11}

applLastInboundActivity OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The value of sysUpTime at the time this application last
       had an inbound association.  If the last association
       occurred prior to the last initialization of the network
       subsystem, then this object contains a zero value."
    ::= {applEntry 12}

applLastOutboundActivity OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The value of sysUpTime at the time this application last
       had an outbound association.  If the last association
       occurred prior to the last initialization of the network
       subsystem, then this object contains a zero value."
    ::= {applEntry 13}

applRejectedInboundAssociations OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The total number of inbound associations the application
       entity has rejected, since application initialization.
       Rejected associations are not counted in the accumulated
       association totals.  Note that this only counts
       associations the application entity has rejected itself;
       it does not count rejections that occur at lower layers
       of the network.  Thus, this counter may not reflect the
       true number of failed inbound associations."
    ::= {applEntry 14}





Expires September 1996                                         [Page 12]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


applFailedOutboundAssociations OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The total number associations where the application entity
       is initiator and association establishment has failed,
       since application initialization.  Failed associations are
       not counted in the accumulated association totals."
    ::= {applEntry 15}

applDescription OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "A description of the application.  This information
       is intended to identify the application in a status
       display."
    ::= {applEntry 16}

applURL OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX URLString
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "A URL pointing to a description of the application.
       This information is intended to identify and describe
       the application in a status display."
    ::= {applEntry 17}


-- The assocTable augments the information in the applTable
-- with information about associations.  Note that two levels
-- of compliance are specified below, depending on whether
-- association monitoring is mandated.

assocTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF AssocEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The table holding a set of all active application
         associations."
    ::= {application 2}





Expires September 1996                                         [Page 13]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


assocEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX AssocEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "An entry associated with an association for a network
       service application."
    INDEX {applIndex, assocIndex}
    ::= {assocTable 1}

AssocEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    assocIndex
        INTEGER,
    assocRemoteApplication
        DisplayString,
    assocApplicationProtocol
        OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
    assocApplicationType
        INTEGER,
    assocDuration
        TimeStamp
}

assocIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX INTEGER (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "An index to uniquely identify each association for a network
       service application.  This attribute is the index that is
       used for lexicographic ordering of the table.  Note that the
       table is also indexed by the applIndex."
    ::= {assocEntry 1}

















Expires September 1996                                         [Page 14]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


assocRemoteApplication OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The name of the system running remote network service
       application.  For an IP-based application this should be
       either a domain name or IP address.  For an OSI application
       it should be the string encoded distinguished name of the
       managed object.  For X.400(1984) MTAs which do not have a
       Distinguished Name, the RFC 1327 [6] syntax
       'mta in globalid' should be used. Note, however, that not
       all connections an MTA are necessarily to another MTA."
    ::= {assocEntry 2}

assocApplicationProtocol OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX OBJECT IDENTIFIER
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "An identification of the protocol being used for the
       application.  For an OSI Application, this will be the
       Application Context.  For Internet applications, the IANA
       maintains a registry of the OIDs which correspond to
       well-known applications.  If the application protocol is
       not listed in the registry, an OID value of the form
       {applTCPProtoID port} or {applUDProtoID port} are used for
       TCP-based and UDP-based protocols, respectively. In either
       case 'port' corresponds to the primary port number being
       used by the protocol."
    ::= {assocEntry 3}



















Expires September 1996                                         [Page 15]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


assocApplicationType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX INTEGER {
        ua-initiator(1),
        ua-responder(2),
        peer-initiator(3),
        peer-responder(4)}
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "This indicates whether the remote application is some type of
       client making use of this network service (e.g. a User Agent)
       or a server acting as a peer. Also indicated is whether the
       remote end initiated an incoming connection to the network
       service or responded to an outgoing connection made by the
       local application.  MTAs and messaging gateways are
       considered to be peers for the purposes of this variable."
    ::= {assocEntry 4}

assocDuration OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The value of sysUpTime at the time this association was
       started.  If this association started prior to the last
       initialization of the network subsystem, then this
       object contains a zero value."
    ::= {assocEntry 5}


-- Conformance information

applConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {application 3}

applGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {applConformance 1}
applCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {applConformance 2}














Expires September 1996                                         [Page 16]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


-- Compliance statements

applCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The compliance statement for SNMPv2 entities
       which implement the Network Services Monitoring MIB
       for basic monitoring of network service applications."
    MODULE  -- this module
      MANDATORY-GROUPS {applGroup}
    ::= {applCompliances 1}

assocCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The compliance statement for SNMPv2 entities which
       implement the Network Services Monitoring MIB for basic
       monitoring of network service applications and their
       associations."
    MODULE  -- this module
      MANDATORY-GROUPS {applGroup, assocGroup}
    ::= {applCompliances 2}


-- Units of conformance

applGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
      applName, applVersion, applUptime, applOperStatus,
      applLastChange, applInboundAssociations,
      applOutboundAssociations, applAccumulatedInboundAssociations,
      applAccumulatedOutboundAssociations, applLastInboundActivity,
      applLastOutboundActivity, applRejectedInboundAssociations,
      applFailedOutboundAssociations, applDescription, applURL}
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "A collection of objects providing basic monitoring of
       network service applications."
    ::= {applGroups 1}











Expires September 1996                                         [Page 17]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


assocGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
      assocRemoteApplication, assocApplicationProtocol,
      assocApplicationType, assocDuration}
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "A collection of objects providing basic monitoring of
       network service applications' associations."
    ::= {applGroups 2}


-- OIDs of the form {applTCPProtoID port} are intended to be used
-- for TCP-based protocols that don't have OIDs assigned by other
-- means. {applUDPProtoID port} serves the same purpose for
-- UDP-based protocols. In either case 'port' corresponds to
-- the primary port number being used by the protocol. For example,
-- assuming no other OID is assigned for SMTP, an OID of
-- {applTCPProtoID 25} could be used, since SMTP is a TCP-based
-- protocol that uses port 25 as its primary port.

applTCPProtoID OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {application 4}
applUDPProtoID OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {application 5}

END


























Expires September 1996                                         [Page 18]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


7.  Changes made since RFC 1565

The only changes made to this document since it was issued as RFC 1565
[8] are the following:

 (1)   applDescription and applURL fields have been added.  These fields
       are intended to identify and describe the application.

 (2)   A number of DESCRIPTION fields have been reworded, hopefully
       making them clearer.

 (3)   The new "quiescing" state has been addedto applOperStatus.

 (4)   The prose about "dynamic single threaded processes" has been
       removed -- it was simply too confusing.

 (5)   Various RFC references have been updated to refer to more recent
       versions.
































Expires September 1996                                         [Page 19]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


8.  Acknowledgements

This document is a product of the Mail and Directory Management (MADMAN)
Working Group. It is based on an earlier MIB designed by S. Kille, T.
Lenggenhager, D. Partain, and W. Yeong.  The Electronic Mail
Association's TSC committee was instrumental in  providing feedback on
and suggesting enhancements to RFC 1565 [8] that have led to the present
document.


9.  References

[1]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Structure
     of Management Information for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902, January 1996.

[2]  McCloghrie, K., and Rose, M., Editors, "Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II", STD 17,
     RFC 1213, March 1991.

[3]  Galvin, J., McCloghrie, K., " Administrative Model for version 2 of
     the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1445, April
     1993.

[4]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Protocol
     Operations for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

[5]  Kille, S., "A String Representation of Distinguished Names", RFC
     1779, March 1995.

[6]  Kille, S., "Mapping between X.400(1988) / ISO 10021 and RFC 822",
     RFC 1327, May 1992.

[7]  Berners-Lee, T., Masinter, L., McCahill, M., iform Resource
     Locators (URL)", RFC 1738, December 1994.

[8]  Freed, N., Kille, S., "Network Services Monitoring MIB", RFC 1565,
     January 1994.


10.  Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.






Expires September 1996                                         [Page 20]





Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB           March 1996


11.  Authors' Addresses

     Ned Freed, Editor
     Innosoft International, Inc.
     1050 East Garvey Avenue South
     West Covina, CA 91790
     USA
      tel: +1 818 919 3600
      fax: +1 818 919 3614
      email: ned@innosoft.com

     Steve Kille, WG Chair
     ISODE Consortium
     The Dome, The Square
     Richmond TW9 1DT
     UK
       tel: +44 181 332 9091
       email: S.Kille@isode.com
































Expires September 1996                                         [Page 21]


