
INTERNET-DRAFT                              R. Hinden, Ipsilon Networks
August 30, 1995                                          J. Postel, ISI
Expires in six months




                    IPv6 Testing Address Allocation

               <draft-ietf-ipngwg-test-addr-alloc-00.txt>






Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet Draft.  Internet Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its Areas, and
its Working Groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet Drafts.

Internet Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months.
Internet Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
documents at any time.  It is not appropriate to use Internet Drafts as
reference material or to cite them other than as a ``working draft'' or
``work in progress.''

Please check the 1id-abstracts.txt listing contained in the internet-
drafts Shadow Directories on nic.ddn.mil, nnsc.nsf.net, nic.nordu.net,
ftp.nisc.sri.com, or munnari.oz.au to learn the current status of any
Internet Draft.


1.0 Introduction

This document describes an allocation plan for IPv6 addresses to be used
in testing IPv6 prototype software.  These addresses are temporary and
will be reclaimed in the future.  Any IPv6 system using these addresses
will have to renumber at some time in the future.  These addresses will
not to be routable in the Internet other than for IPv6 testing.

The addresses described in this document are consistent with the IPv6
Addressing Architecture [ARCH].  They may be assigned to nodes manually,
with IPv6 Auto Address Allocation [AUTO], or with DHCP for IPv6
[DHCPv6].




draft-ietf-ipngwg-test-addr-alloc-00.txt                        [Page 1]

INTERNET-DRAFT       IPv6 Testing Address Allocation     August 30, 1995


2.0 Address Format

The address format for the IPv6 test address is consistent with the
provider-based unicast address allocation [PRVD] which is as follows:

   | 3 |  5 bits  |  16 bits | 8 |   24 bits  | 8 |    64 bits     |
   +---+----------+----------+---+------------+---+----------------+
   |010|RegistryID|ProviderID|RES|SubscriberID|RES|Intra-Subscriber|
   +---+----------+----------+---+------------+---+----------------+

The specific allocation of each field of the test address format is as
follows:

   | 3 |  5 bits  |  16 bits | 8 |   24 bits  | 8 | 16 bits|48 bits|
   +---+----------+----------+---+------------+---+--------+-------+
   |   |          |Autonomous|   |    IPv4    |   | Subnet | Intf. |
   |010|  11111   |  System  |RES|   Network  |RES|        |       |
   |   |          |  Number  |   |   Address  |   | Address|  ID   |
   +---+----------+----------+---+------------+---+--------+-------+

where:


   010

        This is the Format Prefix used to identify provider-based
        unicast addresses.

   11111

        This is a Registry ID reserved by the IANA.  The initial use of
        addresses in this Registry ID for IPv6 testing is temporary.
        All users of these addresses will be required to renumber at
        some time in the future.

   Autonomous System Number

        This is the current autonomous system number assigned to the
        provider providing internet service to the an IPv6 testers
        organization.  For example for IPv6 testers receiving internet
        service from BBN Barrnet would use autonomous system number 189.
        This would be coded in the autonomous system field of the
        address as follows:

             0000 0000 1011 1101 (binary)

        The values for the autonomous system number of an organization's
        provider can be obtained from that provider, or can be looked up



draft-ietf-ipngwg-test-addr-alloc-00.txt                        [Page 2]

INTERNET-DRAFT       IPv6 Testing Address Allocation     August 30, 1995


        in the "whois" database maintained by the internic.net.

   RES

        This field is reserved and must be set to zero.

   IPv4 Network Address

        This is based on the current IPv4 routable address for the
        subscriber which the interface is connected.  It is formed by
        taking the high order 24 bits of the IPv4 address.  For example
        for an IPv4 address (in IPv4 syntax):

             IPv4 Address
             ------------
             39.11.22.1

        the value to put in this field of IPv6 address is:

             IPv4 Format             Hex
             ------------            ------
             39.11.22                270B16

        This technique for generating values for this field only works
        for subscribers which have IPv4 subscriber prefixes less than
        equal to 24 bits long.  There may be subscribers using IPv4
        addresses with longer subscriber prefixes, but this conflict is
        expected to be very rare.  Subscribers with subscriber prefixes
        larger than 24 bits should use the remaining bits in the IPv4
        prefix as the high order bits in the Subnet Address field.

   RES

        This field is reserved and must be set to zero.

   Subnet Address

        The Subnet ID identifies a specific physical link on which the
        interface is located.  There can be multiple subnets on the same
        physical link.  A specific subnet can not span multiple physical
        links.  The assignment of values for this field is left to an
        individual subscriber.  One possible algorithm to generate
        values for this field is to use the bits in the IPv4 address
        which identify the IPv4 subnet.

   Interface ID

        This is the unique identifier of the interface on the link,



draft-ietf-ipngwg-test-addr-alloc-00.txt                        [Page 3]

INTERNET-DRAFT       IPv6 Testing Address Allocation     August 30, 1995


        usually the 48-bit IEEE 802 MAC address of the interface if
        available.

















































draft-ietf-ipngwg-test-addr-alloc-00.txt                        [Page 4]

INTERNET-DRAFT       IPv6 Testing Address Allocation     August 30, 1995


4.0 References

  [ARCH]  Hinden, R., S. Deering, "IP Version 6 Addressing
          Architecture", Internet Draft, draft-hinden-ipng-addr-03.txt,
          June 1995.

  [AUTO]  Thompson, S., "IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration" ,
          Internet Draft, draft-ietf-addrconf-ipv6-auto-03.txt , July
          1995.

  [DHCP6] Bound, J., "Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6", Internet
          Draft, draft-ietf-dhc-dhcpv6-02.txt , July 1995.

  [PROV]  Rekhter, Y., P. Lothberg, "An IPv6 Provider-Based Unicast
          Address Format", Internet Draft, draft-ietf-ipngwg-unicast-
          addr-fmt-02.txt , August 1995.



5.0 Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.


6.0  Authors Address

     Robert M. Hinden
     Ipsilon Networks, Inc.
     2465 Latham Street, Suite 100
     Mt. View, CA 94040
     USA

     phone: +1 415 528 4604
     fax:   +1 415 528 4653

     email: hinden@ipsilon.com

     Jon Postel
     Information Sciences Institute
     4676 Admiralty Way
     Marina del Rey, CA 90292-6695
     USA

     phone: +1 310 822 1511
     fax:   +1 310 823 6714

     email: postel@isi.edu




draft-ietf-ipngwg-test-addr-alloc-00.txt                        [Page 5]

