






                  <draft-bierman-entmib-compid-00.txt>
      Entity MIB Extensions for Persistent Component Identification

                              30 July 1997


                              Andy Bierman
                           Cisco Systems Inc.
                           abierman@cisco.com

                            Keith McCloghrie
                           Cisco Systems Inc.
                             kzm@cisco.com





                          Status of this Memo


This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
``1id-abstracts.txt'' listing contained in the Internet- Drafts Shadow
Directories on ds.internic.net (US East Coast), nic.nordu.net (Europe),
ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast), or munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim).


1.  Introduction

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in the Internet
community.  In particular, it describes managed objects used for
managing physical topology identification and discovery.













Draft                    Entity MIB Extensions                 July 1997


2.  The SNMP Network Management Framework

The SNMP Network Management Framework presently consists of three major
components.  They are:

o    the SMI, described in RFC 1902 [1], - the mechanisms used for
     describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.

o    the MIB-II, STD 17, RFC 1213 [2], - the core set of managed objects
     for the Internet suite of protocols.

o    the protocol, RFC 1157 [6] and/or RFC 1905 [4], - the protocol for
     accessing managed information.


Textual conventions are defined in RFC 1903 [3], and conformance
statements are defined in RFC 1904 [5].


The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.

This memo specifies a MIB module that is compliant to the SNMPv2 SMI.  A
semantically identical MIB conforming to the SNMPv1 SMI can be produced
through the appropriate translation.


2.1.  Object Definitions

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) defined in the
SMI.  In particular, each object type is named by an OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
an administratively assigned name.  The object type together with an
object instance serves to uniquely identify a specific instantiation of
the object.  For human convenience, we often use a textual string,
termed the descriptor, to refer to the object type.


3.  Overview

There is a need for a standardized way of providing non-volatile,
administratively assigned identifiers for physical components
represented with the Entity MIB [7].






Bierman/McCloghrie        Expires January 1998                  [Page 2]





Draft                    Entity MIB Extensions                 July 1997


This document defines extensions to the Entity MIB to address this need.


4.  Entity MIB Extensions

4.1.  MIB Structure

The Entity Extensions MIB contains a single group:

  -  Entity Physical Extensions Group


4.1.1.  Entity Physical Extensions Group

This group contains a single table, called the entPhysicalXTable, which
augments the entPhysicalTable. Each entPhysicalXEntry provides a
DisplayString which can be used by an NMS as a non-volatile alias string
for the physical component.


4.2.  Definitions

ENTITY-EXTENSIONS-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE
        FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    DisplayString
        FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP
        FROM SNMPv2-CONF
    entPhysicalEntry, entityMIBObjects, entityCompliances,
    entityGroups, entityPhysicalGroup
        FROM ENTITY-MIB;

entityXMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9703170000Z"
    ORGANIZATION "Cisco Systems, Inc."
    CONTACT-INFO
       "Andy Bierman
        Cisco Systems Inc.
        170 West Tasman Drive
        San Jose, CA 95134
        408-527-3711
        abierman@cisco.com





Bierman/McCloghrie        Expires January 1998                  [Page 3]





Draft                    Entity MIB Extensions                 July 1997


        Keith McCloghrie
        Cisco Systems Inc.
        170 West Tasman Drive
        San Jose, CA 95134
        408-526-5260
        kzm@cisco.com"
    DESCRIPTION
            "The extension MIB module for physical entity information."
    ::= { experimental xx }
--  ***********************************************************
--
--     E N T I T Y     P H Y S I C A L    E X T E N S I O N S
--
--  ***********************************************************

-- entPhysicalTable extensions

entityPhysicalX  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { entityMIBObjects 5 }

entPhysicalXTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF EntPhysicalXEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This table contains one row per physical element
            represented in the entPhysicalTable."
    ::= { entityPhysicalX 1 }

entPhysicalXEntry       OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      EntPhysicalXEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Information about a particular physical entity.

            Each entry provides an object (entPhysicalAlias) to help an
            NMS uniquely identify a physical entity with a DisplayString
            stored in non-volatile and re-created after a reboot."
    AUGMENTS   { entPhysicalEntry }
    ::= { entPhysicalXTable 1 }

EntPhysicalXEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
      entPhysicalAlias          DisplayString
}






Bierman/McCloghrie        Expires January 1998                  [Page 4]





Draft                    Entity MIB Extensions                 July 1997


entPhysicalAlias    OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      DisplayString (SIZE (0..48))
    MAX-ACCESS  read-write
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This object is an 'alias' name for the physical entity as
            specified by a network manager, and provides a non-volatile
            'handle' for the physical entity.

            On the first instantiation of an physical entity, the value
            of entPhysicalAlias associated with that entity is the
            zero-length string.  As and when a value is written into an
            instance of entPhysicalAlias through a network management
            set operation, then the agent must retain the supplied value
            in the entPhysicalAlias instance associated with the same
            physical entity for as long as that entity remains
            instantiated, including across all re-
            initializations/reboots of the network management system,
            including those which result in a change of the physical
            entity's entPhysicalIndex value."
    ::= { entPhysicalXEntry 1 }

-- conformance information
-- compliance statements

entityXCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
   STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for SNMP entities which implement
            the entPhysicalXTable Entity MIB extension."
    MODULE  -- this module
        MANDATORY-GROUPS {
                entityPhysicalGroup,
                entityPhysicalXGroup
        }
    ::= {  entityCompliances 2 }


-- MIB groupings
entityPhysicalXGroup    OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        entPhysicalAlias
    }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION





Bierman/McCloghrie        Expires January 1998                  [Page 5]





Draft                    Entity MIB Extensions                 July 1997


            "The collection of objects which are used to represent
            extended physical topology information for which a single
            agent provides management information."
    ::= { entityGroups 5 }

END












































Bierman/McCloghrie        Expires January 1998                  [Page 6]





Draft                    Entity MIB Extensions                 July 1997


5.  References

[1]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, "Structure of Management Information for version 2
     of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902,
     January 1996.

[2]  McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II", STD 17,
     RFC 1213, Hughes LAN Systems, Performance Systems International,
     March 1991.

[3]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, "Textual Conventions for version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1903, January 1996.

[4]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, "Protocol Operations for version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

[5]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, "Conformance Statements for version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1904, January 1996.

[6]  Case, J., M. Fedor, M. Schoffstall, J. Davin, "Simple Network
     Management Protocol", RFC 1157, SNMP Research, Performance Systems
     International, MIT Laboratory for Computer Science, May 1990.

[7]  McCloghrie, K., Bierman, A., "Entity MIB using SMIv2", RFC 2037,
     Cisco Systems, October 1996.




















Bierman/McCloghrie        Expires January 1998                  [Page 7]





Draft                    Entity MIB Extensions                 July 1997


6.  Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.


7.  Author's Address

     Andy Bierman
     Cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive
     San Jose, CA 95134
     Phone: 408-527-3711
     Email: abierman@cisco.com

     Keith McCloghrie
     Cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive
     San Jose, CA 95134
     Phone: 408-526-5260
     Email: kzm@cisco.com






























Bierman/McCloghrie        Expires January 1998                  [Page 8]





Draft                    Entity MIB Extensions                 July 1997


Table of Contents


1 Introduction ....................................................    1
2 The SNMP Network Management Framework ...........................    2
2.1 Object Definitions ............................................    2
3 Overview ........................................................    2
4 Entity MIB Extensions ...........................................    3
4.1 MIB Structure .................................................    3
4.1.1 Entity Physical Extensions Group ............................    3
4.2 Definitions ...................................................    3
5 References ......................................................    7
6 Security Considerations .........................................    8
7 Author's Address ................................................    8




































Bierman/McCloghrie        Expires January 1998                  [Page 9]

