PIM Working Group                                               H. Zhao
Internet Draft                                                 Ericsson
Intended status: Standards Track                                 X. Liu
Expires: April 10, 2019                                           Jabil
                                                                 Y. Liu
                                                                 Huawei
                                                           M. Sivakumar
                                                                Juniper
                                                               A. Peter
                                                              Individual

                                                        October 11, 2018



                A Yang Data Model for IGMP and MLD Snooping
               draft-ietf-pim-igmp-mld-snooping-yang-05.txt




Abstract

   This document defines a YANG data model that can be used to
configure and manage Internet Group Management Protocol (IGMP) and
Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD) Snooping devices. The YANG module in
this document conforms to Network Management Datastore Architecture
(NMDA).

Status of this Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time. It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html




Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                 [Page 1]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

   This Internet-Draft will expire on April 10, 2019.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2018 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors. All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document. Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.



Table of Contents


   1. Introduction...................................................3
      1.1. Terminology...............................................3
      1.2. Tree Diagrams.............................................3
   2. Design of Data Model...........................................3
      2.1. Overview..................................................4
      2.2. IGMP Snooping Instances...................................4
      2.3. MLD Snooping Instances....................................6
      2.4. IGMP and MLD Snooping Instances Reference.................8
      2.5. IGMP and MLD Snooping RPC.................................9
   3. IGMP and MLD Snooping YANG Module..............................9
   4. Security Considerations.......................................32
   5. IANA Considerations...........................................33
   6. Normative References..........................................34
   Appendix A.  Data Tree Example...................................36
   Authors' Addresses...............................................42















Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                 [Page 2]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

1. Introduction

This document defines a YANG [RFC6020] data model for the management of
Internet Group Management Protocol (IGMP) and Multicast Listener
Discovery (MLD) Snooping devices.

The YANG module in this document conforms to the Network Management
Datastore Architecture defined in [RFC8342]. The "Network Management
Datastore Architecture" (NMDA) adds the ability to inspect the current
operational values for configuration, allowing clients to use identical
paths for retrieving the configured values and the operational values.



1.1. Terminology

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
"OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in BCP 14
[RFC2119].

The terminology for describing YANG data models is found in [RFC6020].



1.2. Tree Diagrams

A simplified graphical representation of the data model is used in this
document.  The meaning of the symbols in these diagrams is as follows:

   o Brackets "[" and "]" enclose list keys.

   o Abbreviations before data node names: "rw" means configuration
   (read-write), and "ro" means state data (read-only).

   o Symbols after data node names: "?" means an optional node, "!"
   means a presence container, and "*" denotes a list and leaf-list.

   o Parentheses enclose choice and case nodes, and case nodes are also
   marked with a colon (":").

   o Ellipsis ("...") stands for contents of subtrees that are not
   shown.



2. Design of Data Model

The model covers Considerations for Internet Group Management Protocol
(IGMP) and Multicast Listener Discovery (MLD) Snooping Switches
[RFC4541].

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                 [Page 3]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

The goal of this document is to define a data model that provides a
common user interface to IGMP and MLD Snooping.  This document provides
freedom for vendors to adapt this data model to their product
implementations.



2.1. Overview

The IGMP and MLD Snooping YANG module defined in this document has all
the common building blocks for the IGMP and MLD Snooping protocol.

The YANG module includes IGMP and MLD Snooping instance definition,
instance reference in the scenario of BRIDGE and L2VPN. The module also
includes the RPC methods for clearing IGMP and MLD Snooping group
tables.

This YANG module follows the Guidelines for YANG Module Authors (NMDA)
[draft-dsdt-nmda-guidelines-01]. This NMDA ("Network Management
Datastore Architecture") architecture provides an architectural
framework for datastores as they are used by network management
protocols such as NETCONF [RFC6241], RESTCONF [RFC8040] and the YANG
[RFC7950] data modeling language.



2.2. IGMP Snooping Instances

The YANG module defines igmp-snooping-instance which could be referenced
in the BRIDGE or L2VPN scenario to enable IGMP Snooping.

All the IGMP Snooping related attributes have been defined in the igmp-
snooping-instance. The read-write attribute means configurable data. The
read-only attribute means state data. The key attribute of the igmp-
snooping-instance is name.

One igmp-snooping-instance could be referenced in one BRIDGE instance or
L2VPN instance. One igmp-snooping-instance corresponds to one BRIDGE
instance or L2VPN instance.

The value of type in igmp-snooping-instance is bridge or l2vpn. When it
is bridge, the igmp-snooping-instance will be referenced in the BRIDGE
scenario. When it is l2vpn, the igmp-snooping-instance will be
referenced in the L2VPN scenario.

The value of bridge-mrouter-interface, l2vpn-mrouter-interface-ac,
l2vpn-mrouter-interface-pw are filled by snooping device dynamically.
They are different from static-bridge-mrouter-interface, static-l2vpn-
mrouter-interface-ac, and static-l2vpn-mrouter-interface-pw which are
configured statically.


Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                 [Page 4]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

The attributes under the statistics are read-only. They show the
statistics of IGMP and MLD Snooping related packets.

module: ietf-igmp-mld-snooping
    +--rw igmp-snooping-instances
    |  +--rw igmp-snooping-instance* [name]
    |     +--rw name                                 string
    |     +--rw type?                                enumeration
    |     +--rw enable?                              boolean
    |     +--rw forwarding-mode?                     enumeration
    |     +--rw explicit-tracking?                   boolean
    |     |       {explicit-tracking}?
    |     +--rw exclude-lite?                        boolean
    |     |       {exclude-lite}?
    |     +--rw send-query?                          boolean
    |     +--rw immediate-leave?                     empty
    |     |       {immediate-leave}?
    |     +--rw last-member-query-interval?          uint16
    |     +--rw query-interval?                      uint16
    |     +--rw query-max-response-time?             uint16
    |     +--rw require-router-alert?                boolean
    |     |       {require-router-alert}?
    |     +--rw robustness-variable?                 uint8
    |     +--rw version?                             uint8
    |     +--rw static-bridge-mrouter-interface*     if:interface-ref
    |     |       {static-mrouter-interface}?
    |     +--rw static-l2vpn-mrouter-interface-ac*   if:interface-ref
    |     |       {static-mrouter-interface}?
    |     +--rw static-l2vpn-mrouter-interface-pw*
    |     |       l2vpn-instance-pw-ref {static-mrouter-interface}?
    |     +--rw querier-source?                      inet:ipv4-address
    |     +--rw static-l2-multicast-group* [group source-addr]
    |     |       {static-l2-multicast-group}?
    |     |  +--rw group                        inet:ipv4-address
    |     |  +--rw source-addr                  source-ipv4-addr-type
    |     |  +--rw bridge-outgoing-interface*   if:interface-ref
    |     |  +--rw l2vpn-outgoing-ac*           l2vpn-instance-ac-ref
    |     |  +--rw l2vpn-outgoing-pw*           l2vpn-instance-pw-ref
    |     +--ro entries-count?                       uint32
    |     +--ro bridge-mrouter-interface*            if:interface-ref
    |     +--ro l2vpn-mrouter-interface-ac*          if:interface-ref
    |     +--ro l2vpn-mrouter-interface-pw*
    |     |       l2vpn-instance-pw-ref
    |     +--ro group* [address]
    |     |  +--ro address          inet:ipv4-address
    |     |  +--ro mac-address?     yang:phys-address
    |     |  +--ro expire?          uint32
    |     |  +--ro up-time?         uint32
    |     |  +--ro last-reporter?   inet:ipv4-address
    |     |  +--ro source* [address]
    |     |     +--ro address                      inet:ipv4-address

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                 [Page 5]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

    |     |     +--ro bridge-outgoing-interface*   if:interface-ref
    |     |     +--ro l2vpn-outgoing-ac*           l2vpn-instance-ac-ref
    |     |     +--ro l2vpn-outgoing-pw*           l2vpn-instance-pw-ref
    |     |     +--ro up-time?                     uint32
    |     |     +--ro expire?                      uint32
    |     |     +--ro host-count?                  uint32
    |     |     |       {explicit-tracking}?
    |     |     +--ro last-reporter?               inet:ipv4-address
    |     |     +--ro host* [host-address] {explicit-tracking}?
    |     |        +--ro host-address        inet:ipv4-address
    |     |        +--ro host-filter-mode?   enumeration
    |     +--ro interfaces
    |        +--ro interface* [name]
    |           +--ro name          if:interface-ref
    |           +--ro statistics
    |              +--ro received
    |              |  +--ro query?                  yang:counter64
    |              |  +--ro membership-report-v1?   yang:counter64
    |              |  +--ro membership-report-v2?   yang:counter64
    |              |  +--ro membership-report-v3?   yang:counter64
    |              |  +--ro leave?                  yang:counter64
    |              |  +--ro non-member-leave?       yang:counter64
    |              |  +--ro pim?                    yang:counter64
    |              +--ro sent
    |                 +--ro query?                  yang:counter64
    |                 +--ro membership-report-v1?   yang:counter64
    |                 +--ro membership-report-v2?   yang:counter64
    |                 +--ro membership-report-v3?   yang:counter64
    |                 +--ro leave?                  yang:counter64
    |                 +--ro non-member-leave?       yang:counter64
    |                 +--ro pim?                    yang:counter64




2.3. MLD Snooping Instances

The YANG module defines mld-snooping-instance which could be referenced
in the BRIDGE or L2VPN scenario to enable MLD Snooping.

The mld-snooping-instance is the same as IGMP snooping except changing
IPV4 addresses to IPV6 addresses.

module: ietf-igmp-mld-snooping
    +--rw mld-snooping-instances
       +--rw mld-snooping-instance* [name]
          +--rw name                                 string
          +--rw type?                                enumeration
          +--rw enable?                              boolean
          +--rw forwarding-mode?                     enumeration
          +--rw explicit-tracking?                   boolean

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                 [Page 6]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

          |       {explicit-tracking}?
          +--rw exclude-lite?                        boolean
          |       {exclude-lite}?
          +--rw send-query?                          boolean
          +--rw immediate-leave?                     empty
          |       {immediate-leave}?
          +--rw last-member-query-interval?          uint16
          +--rw query-interval?                      uint16
          +--rw query-max-response-time?             uint16
          +--rw require-router-alert?                boolean
          |       {require-router-alert}?
          +--rw robustness-variable?                 uint8
          +--rw version?                             uint8
          +--rw static-bridge-mrouter-interface*     if:interface-ref
          |       {static-mrouter-interface}?
          +--rw static-l2vpn-mrouter-interface-ac*   if:interface-ref
          |       {static-mrouter-interface}?
          +--rw static-l2vpn-mrouter-interface-pw*
          |       l2vpn-instance-pw-ref {static-mrouter-interface}?
          +--rw querier-source?                      inet:ipv6-address
          +--rw static-l2-multicast-group* [group source-addr]
          |       {static-l2-multicast-group}?
          |  +--rw group                        inet:ipv6-address
          |  +--rw source-addr                  source-ipv6-addr-type
          |  +--rw bridge-outgoing-interface*   if:interface-ref
          |  +--rw l2vpn-outgoing-ac*           l2vpn-instance-ac-ref
          |  +--rw l2vpn-outgoing-pw*           l2vpn-instance-pw-ref
          +--ro entries-count?                       uint32
          +--ro bridge-mrouter-interface*            if:interface-ref
          +--ro l2vpn-mrouter-interface-ac*          if:interface-ref
          +--ro l2vpn-mrouter-interface-pw*
          |       l2vpn-instance-pw-ref
          +--ro group* [address]
          |  +--ro address          inet:ipv6-address
          |  +--ro mac-address?     yang:phys-address
          |  +--ro expire?          uint32
          |  +--ro up-time?         uint32
          |  +--ro last-reporter?   inet:ipv6-address
          |  +--ro source* [address]
          |     +--ro address                      inet:ipv6-address
          |     +--ro bridge-outgoing-interface*   if:interface-ref
          |     +--ro l2vpn-outgoing-ac*           l2vpn-instance-ac-ref
          |     +--ro l2vpn-outgoing-pw*           l2vpn-instance-pw-ref
          |     +--ro up-time?                     uint32
          |     +--ro expire?                      uint32
          |     +--ro host-count?                  uint32
          |     |       {explicit-tracking}?
          |     +--ro last-reporter?               inet:ipv6-address
          |     +--ro host* [host-address] {explicit-tracking}?
          |        +--ro host-address        inet:ipv6-address
          |        +--ro host-filter-mode?   enumeration

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                 [Page 7]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

          +--ro interfaces
             +--ro interface* [name]
                +--ro name          if:interface-ref
                +--ro statistics
                   +--ro received
                   |  +--ro query?       yang:counter64
                   |  +--ro report-v1?   yang:counter64
                   |  +--ro report-v2?   yang:counter64
                   |  +--ro done?        yang:counter64
                   |  +--ro pim?         yang:counter64
                   +--ro sent
                      +--ro query?       yang:counter64
                      +--ro report-v1?   yang:counter64
                      +--ro report-v2?   yang:counter64
                      +--ro done?        yang:counter64
                      +--ro pim?         yang:counter64


2.4. IGMP and MLD Snooping Instances Reference

The igmp-snooping-instance could be referenced in the scenario of BRIDGE
or L2VPN to configure the IGMP Snooping.

For the BRIDGE scenario this model augments /dot1q:bridges/dot1q:bridge
to reference igmp-snooping-instance. It means IGMP Snooping is enabled
in the whole bridge.

It also augments /dot1q:bridges/dot1q:bridge/dot1q:component/
dot1q:bridge-vlan/dot1q:vlan to reference igmp-snooping-instance. It
means IGMP Snooping is enabled in the certain VLAN of the bridge.

   augment /dot1q:bridges/dot1q:bridge:
       +--rw igmp-snooping-instance?   igmp-snooping-instance-ref
      +--rw mld-snooping-instance?    mld-snooping-instance-ref

   augment /dot1q:bridges/dot1q:bridge/dot1q:component/dot1q:bridge-vlan/dot1q:vlan:
       +--rw igmp-snooping-instance?   igmp-snooping-instance-ref
       +--rw mld-snooping-instance?    mld-snooping-instance-ref


For the L2VPN scenario this model augments /ni:network-instances/
ni:network-instance/ni:ni-type/l2vpn:l2vpn to reference igmp-snooping-
instance. It means IGMP Snooping is enabled in the specified l2vpn
instance.

   augment /ni:network-instances/ni:network-instance/ni:ni-type/l2vpn:l2vpn:
       +--rw igmp-snooping-instance?   igmp-snooping-instance-ref
       +--rw mld-snooping-instance?    mld-snooping-instance-ref




Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                 [Page 8]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

The mld-snooping-instance could be referenced in concurrence with igmp-
snooping-instance to configure the MLD Snooping.



2.5. IGMP and MLD Snooping RPC

   IGMP and MLD Snooping RPC clears the specified IGMP and MLD Snooping
   group tables.

   rpcs:
       +---x clear-igmp-snooping-groups {rpc-clear-groups}?
       |  +---w input
       |     +---w name?     string
       |     +---w group?    inet:ipv4-address
       |     +---w source?   inet:ipv4-address
       +---x clear-mld-snooping-groups {rpc-clear-groups}?
          +---w input
             +---w name?     string
             +---w group?    inet:ipv6-address
             +---w source?   inet:ipv6-address



3. IGMP and MLD Snooping YANG Module

<CODE BEGINS> file ietf-igmp-mld-snooping@2018-10-11.yang
module ietf-igmp-mld-snooping {
  yang-version 1.1;
  namespace "urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-igmp-mld-snooping";
  // replace with IANA namespace when assigned
  prefix ims;

  import ietf-inet-types {
    prefix "inet";
  }

  import ietf-yang-types {
    prefix "yang";
  }

  import ietf-interfaces {
    prefix "if";
  }

  import ietf-l2vpn {
    prefix "l2vpn";
  }

  import ietf-network-instance {
    prefix "ni";

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                 [Page 9]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

  }

  import ieee802-dot1q-bridge {
    prefix "dot1q";
  }

  organization
    "IETF PIM Working Group";

  contact
    "WG Web:   <http://tools.ietf.org/wg/pim/>
     WG List:  <mailto:pim@ietf.org>

     Editors:  Hongji Zhao
               <mailto:hongji.zhao@ericsson.com>

               Xufeng Liu
               <mailto:xufeng.liu.ietf@gmail.com>

               Yisong Liu
               <mailto:liuyisong@huawei.com>

               Anish Peter
               <mailto:anish.ietf@gmail.com>

               Mahesh Sivakumar
               <mailto:sivakumar.mahesh@gmail.com>

    ";

  description
    "The module defines a collection of YANG definitions common for
     all Internet Group Management Protocol (IGMP) and Multicast
     Listener Discovery (MLD) Snooping devices.

     Copyright (c) 2018 IETF Trust and the persons identified as
     authors of the code.  All rights reserved.

     Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or
     without modification, is permitted pursuant to, and subject to
     the license terms contained in, the Simplified BSD License set
     forth in Section 4.c of the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions
     Relating to IETF Documents
     (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info).

     This version of this YANG module is part of RFC XXXX; see the
     RFC itself for full legal notices.";

  revision 2018-10-11 {
    description
      "Initial revision.";

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 10]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

    reference
      "RFC XXXX: A YANG Data Model for IGMP and MLD Snooping";
  }


  /*
   * Features
   */

  feature immediate-leave {
    description
      "Support configuration of immediate-leave.";
  }

  feature join-group {
    description
      "Support configuration of join-group.";
  }

  feature require-router-alert {
    description
      "Support configuration of require-router-alert.";
  }

  feature static-l2-multicast-group {
    description
      "Support configuration of L2 multicast static-group.";
  }

  feature static-mrouter-interface {
    description
      "Support configuration of mrouter interface.";
  }

  feature rpc-clear-groups {
    description
      "Support clearing statistics by RPC for IGMP & MLD snooping.";
  }

  feature explicit-tracking {
    description
      "Support configuration of per instance explicit-tracking.";
  }

  feature exclude-lite {
    description
      "Support configuration of per instance exclude-lite.";
  }

    /*
     * Typedefs

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 11]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

     */
  typedef igmp-snooping-instance-ref {
    type leafref {
      path "/igmp-snooping-instances/igmp-snooping-instance/name";
    }
    description
      "This type is used by data models that need to reference
       IGMP snooping instance.";
  }

  typedef mld-snooping-instance-ref {
    type leafref {
      path "/mld-snooping-instances/mld-snooping-instance/name";
    }
    description
      "This type is used by data models that need to reference
       MLD snooping instance.";
    }

  typedef l2vpn-instance-ac-ref {
    type leafref {
      path "/ni:network-instances/ni:network-instance"+
      "/l2vpn:endpoint/l2vpn:name";
    }
    description "l2vpn-instance-ac-ref";
  }

  typedef l2vpn-instance-pw-ref {
    type leafref {
      path "/ni:network-instances/ni:network-instance"+
       "/l2vpn:endpoint/l2vpn:name";
    }
    description "l2vpn-instance-pw-ref";
  }

  typedef source-ipv4-addr-type {
    type union {
      type enumeration {
        enum '*' {
          description
          "Any source address.";
        }
      }
      type inet:ipv4-address;
    }
    description
      "Multicast source IPV4 address type.";
  } // source-ipv4-addr-type

  typedef source-ipv6-addr-type {
    type union {

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 12]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

      type enumeration {
        enum '*' {
          description
          "Any source address.";
        }
      }
      type inet:ipv6-address;
    }
    description
      "Multicast source IPV6 address type.";
  } // source-ipv6-addr-type


      /*
       * Groupings
       */

  grouping instance-config-attributes-igmp-snooping {
    description "IGMP snooping configuration for each"+
     "BRIDGE or L2VPN instance.";

    uses instance-config-attributes-igmp-mld-snooping;

    leaf querier-source {
      type inet:ipv4-address;
      description "Use the IGMP snooping querier to support IGMP
        snooping in a VLAN where PIM and IGMP are not configured.
       The IPV4 address is used as source address in messages.";
    }

    list static-l2-multicast-group {
      if-feature static-l2-multicast-group;
      key "group source-addr";
      description
        "A static multicast route, (*,G) or (S,G).";

      leaf group {
        type inet:ipv4-address;
        description
        "Multicast group IPV4 address";
      }

      leaf source-addr {
        type source-ipv4-addr-type;
        description
          "Multicast source IPV4 address.";
      }

      leaf-list bridge-outgoing-interface {
        when "../../type = 'bridge'";
        type if:interface-ref;

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 13]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

        description "Outgoing interface in BRIDGE forwarding";
      }

      leaf-list l2vpn-outgoing-ac {
        when "../../type = 'l2vpn'";
        type l2vpn-instance-ac-ref;
        description "Outgoing AC in L2VPN forwarding";
      }

      leaf-list l2vpn-outgoing-pw {
        when "../../type = 'l2vpn'";
        type l2vpn-instance-pw-ref;
        description "Outgoing PW in L2VPN forwarding";
      }
    } // static-l2-multicast-group
  } // instance-config-attributes-igmp-snooping

  grouping instance-config-attributes-igmp-mld-snooping {
    description
      "IGMP and MLD snooping configuration of each VLAN.";

    leaf enable {
      type boolean;
      default false;
        description
          "Set the value to true to enable IGMP & MLD snooping.";
    }

    leaf forwarding-mode {
      type enumeration {
        enum "mac" {
          description
          "MAC-based lookup mode";
        }
        enum "ip"  {
          description
          "IP-based lookup mode";
        }
      }
      default "ip";
      description "The default forwarding mode is ip";
    }

    leaf explicit-tracking {
      if-feature explicit-tracking;
      type boolean;
      default false;
      description "Tracks IGMP & MLD snooping v3 membership reports
       from individual hosts. It contributes to saving network
       resources and shortening leave latency.";
    }

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 14]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018


    leaf exclude-lite {
      if-feature exclude-lite;
      type boolean;
     default false;
      description
        "lightweight IGMPv3 and MLDv2 protocols, which simplify the
         standard versions of IGMPv3 and MLDv2.";
      reference "RFC5790";
    }

    leaf send-query {
      type boolean;
      default false;
      description "Enable quick response for topo changes.
        To support IGMP snooping in a VLAN where PIM and IGMP are
        not configured. It cooperates with param querier-source. ";
    }

    leaf immediate-leave {
      if-feature immediate-leave;
      type empty;
      description
        "When immediate leave is enabled, the IGMP software assumes
       that no more than one host is present on each VLAN port.";
    }

    leaf last-member-query-interval {
      type uint16 {
        range "1..65535";
      }
      units seconds;
      default 1;
      description
        "Last Member Query Interval, which may be tuned to modify
         the leave latency of the network.";
      reference "RFC3376. Sec. 8.8.";
    }

    leaf query-interval {
      type uint16;
      units seconds;
      default 125;
      description
        "The Query Interval is the interval between General Queries
         sent by the Querier.";
      reference "RFC3376. Sec. 4.1.7, 8.2, 8.14.2.";
    }

    leaf query-max-response-time {
      type uint16;

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 15]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

      units seconds;
      default 10;
      description
        "Query maximum response time specifies the maximum time
         allowed before sending a responding report.";
      reference "RFC3376. Sec. 4.1.1, 8.3, 8.14.3.";
    }

    leaf require-router-alert {
      if-feature require-router-alert;
      type boolean;
     default false;
      description
        "When the value is true, router alert should exist
       in the IP head of IGMP or MLD packet.";
    }

    leaf robustness-variable {
      type uint8 {
        range "1..7";
      }
      default 2;
      description
        "Querier's Robustness Variable allows tuning for the
       expected packet loss on a network.";
      reference "RFC3376. Sec. 4.1.6, 8.1, 8.14.1.";
    }

    leaf version {
      type uint8 {
        range "1..3";
      }
     default 2;
      description "IGMP and MLD snooping version.";
    }

    leaf-list static-bridge-mrouter-interface {
      when "../type = 'bridge'";
      if-feature static-mrouter-interface;
      type if:interface-ref;
      description "static mrouter interface in BRIDGE forwarding";
    }

    leaf-list static-l2vpn-mrouter-interface-ac {
      when "../type = 'l2vpn'";
      if-feature static-mrouter-interface;
      type if:interface-ref;
      description "static mrouter interface whose type is interface
       in L2VPN forwarding";
    }


Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 16]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

    leaf-list static-l2vpn-mrouter-interface-pw {
      when "../type = 'l2vpn'";
      if-feature static-mrouter-interface;
      type l2vpn-instance-pw-ref;
      description "static mrouter interface whose type is PW
       in L2VPN forwarding";
    }
  } // instance-config-attributes-igmp-mld-snooping

  grouping instance-config-attributes-mld-snooping {
    description "MLD snooping configuration of each VLAN.";

    uses instance-config-attributes-igmp-mld-snooping;

    leaf querier-source {
      type inet:ipv6-address;
      description
        "Use the MLD snooping querier to support MLD snooping where
      PIM and MLD are not configured. The IPV6 address is used as
      the source address in messages.";
    }

    list static-l2-multicast-group {
      if-feature static-l2-multicast-group;
      key "group source-addr";
      description
        "A static multicast route, (*,G) or (S,G).";

      leaf group {
        type inet:ipv6-address;
        description
          "Multicast group IPV6 address";
      }

      leaf source-addr {
        type source-ipv6-addr-type;
        description
          "Multicast source IPV6 address.";
      }

      leaf-list bridge-outgoing-interface {
       when "../../type = 'bridge'";
       type if:interface-ref;
       description "Outgoing interface in BRIDGE forwarding";
      }

      leaf-list l2vpn-outgoing-ac {
       when "../../type = 'l2vpn'";
       type l2vpn-instance-ac-ref;
       description "Outgoing AC in L2VPN forwarding";
      }

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 17]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018


      leaf-list l2vpn-outgoing-pw {
       when "../../type = 'l2vpn'";
       type l2vpn-instance-pw-ref;
       description "Outgoing PW in L2VPN forwarding";
      }
    } // static-l2-multicast-group
  } // instance-config-attributes-mld-snooping

  grouping instance-state-group-attributes-igmp-mld-snooping {
    description
      "Attributes for both IGMP and MLD snooping groups.";

    leaf mac-address {
      type yang:phys-address;
      description "Destination MAC address for L2 multicast.";
    }

    leaf expire {
      type uint32;
      units seconds;
      description
      "The time left before multicast group timeout.";
    }

    leaf up-time {
      type uint32;
      units seconds;
      description
        "The time elapsed since L2 multicast record created.";
    }
  } // instance-state-group-attributes-igmp-mld-snooping


  grouping instance-state-attributes-igmp-snooping {
    description
      "State attributes for IGMP snooping for each instance.";

    uses instance-state-attributes-igmp-mld-snooping;

    list group {

      key "address";

      config false;

      description "IGMP snooping information";

      leaf address {
        type inet:ipv4-address;
        description

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 18]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

          "Multicast group IPV4 address";
      }

      uses instance-state-group-attributes-igmp-mld-snooping;

      leaf last-reporter {
        type inet:ipv4-address;
        description
          "Address of the last host which has sent report to join
           the multicast group.";
      }

      list source {
        key "address";
        description "Source IPV4 address for multicast stream";
        leaf address {
          type inet:ipv4-address;
          description "Source IPV4 address for multicast stream";
        }

        uses instance-state-source-attributes-igmp-mld-snooping;

        leaf last-reporter {
          type inet:ipv4-address;
          description
            "Address of the last host which has sent report
          to join the multicast group.";
        }

        list host {
          if-feature explicit-tracking;
          key "host-address";
          description
            "List of multicast membership hosts
             of the specific multicast source-group.";

          leaf host-address {
            type inet:ipv4-address;
            description
              "Multicast membership host address.";
          }
          leaf host-filter-mode {
            type enumeration {
              enum "include" {
                description
                  "In include mode";
              }
              enum "exclude" {
                description
                  "In exclude mode.";
              }

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 19]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

            }
            description
              "Filter mode for a multicast membership
               host may be either include or exclude.";
          }
        }// list host

      } // list source
    } // list group
  } // instance-state-attributes-igmp-snooping

  grouping instance-state-attributes-igmp-mld-snooping {

    description
      "State attributes for IGMP & MLD snooping instance.";

    leaf entries-count {
      type uint32;
     config false;
      description
       "The number of L2 multicast entries in IGMP & MLD snooping";
    }

    leaf-list bridge-mrouter-interface {
      when "../type = 'bridge'";
      type if:interface-ref;
      config false;
      description "mrouter interface in BRIDGE forwarding";
    }

    leaf-list l2vpn-mrouter-interface-ac {
      when "../type = 'l2vpn'";
      type if:interface-ref;
      config false;
      description "mrouter interface whose type is interface
       in L2VPN forwarding";

    }

    leaf-list l2vpn-mrouter-interface-pw {
      when "../type = 'l2vpn'";
      type l2vpn-instance-pw-ref;
      config false;
      description "mrouter interface whose type is PW
       in L2VPN forwarding";
    }
  } // instance-config-attributes-igmp-mld-snooping

  grouping instance-state-attributes-mld-snooping {
    description
      "State attributes for MLD snooping of each VLAN.";

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 20]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018


    uses instance-state-attributes-igmp-mld-snooping;

    list group {
      key "address";
      config false;
      description "MLD snooping statistics information";

      leaf address {
        type inet:ipv6-address;
        description
          "Multicast group IPV6 address";
      }

      uses instance-state-group-attributes-igmp-mld-snooping;

      leaf last-reporter {
        type inet:ipv6-address;
        description
          "Address of the last host which has sent report
         to join the multicast group.";
      }

      list source {
        key "address";
        description "Source IPV6 address for multicast stream";

      leaf address {
          type inet:ipv6-address;
          description "Source IPV6 address for multicast stream";
        }

        uses instance-state-source-attributes-igmp-mld-snooping;

        leaf last-reporter {
         type inet:ipv6-address;
         description
          "Address of the last host which has sent report
         to join the multicast group.";
        }

        list host {
          if-feature explicit-tracking;
          key "host-address";
          description
            "List of multicast membership hosts
             of the specific multicast source-group.";

          leaf host-address {
            type inet:ipv6-address;
            description

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 21]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

              "Multicast membership host address.";
          }
          leaf host-filter-mode {
            type enumeration {
              enum "include" {
                description
                  "In include mode";
              }
              enum "exclude" {
                description
                  "In exclude mode.";
              }
            }
            description
              "Filter mode for a multicast membership
               host may be either include or exclude.";
          }
        }// list host
      } // list source
    } // list group
  } // instance-state-attributes-mld-snooping

  grouping instance-state-source-attributes-igmp-mld-snooping {
    description
      "State attributes for IGMP & MLD snooping instance.";

    leaf-list bridge-outgoing-interface {
      when "../../../type = 'bridge'";
      type if:interface-ref;
      description "Outgoing interface in BRIDGE forwarding";
    }

    leaf-list l2vpn-outgoing-ac {
      when "../../../type = 'l2vpn'";
      type l2vpn-instance-ac-ref;
      description "Outgoing AC in L2VPN forwarding";
    }

    leaf-list l2vpn-outgoing-pw {
      when "../../../type = 'l2vpn'";
      type l2vpn-instance-pw-ref;
      description "Outgoing PW in L2VPN forwarding";
    }

    leaf up-time {
      type uint32;
      units seconds;
      description "The time elapsed since L2 multicast
        record created";
    }


Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 22]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

    leaf expire {
      type uint32;
      units seconds;
      description
        "The time left before multicast group timeout.";
    }

    leaf host-count {
      if-feature explicit-tracking;
      type uint32;
      description
        "The number of host addresses.";
    }
  } // instance-state-source-attributes-igmp-mld-snooping

  grouping igmp-snooping-statistics-sent-received {
    description
      "The statistics attributes for IGMP snooping.";

      leaf query {
        type yang:counter64;
        description
          "The number of query messages.";
      }
      leaf membership-report-v1 {
        type yang:counter64;
        description
          "The number of membership report v1 messages.";
      }
      leaf membership-report-v2 {
        type yang:counter64;
        description
          "The number of membership report v2 messages.";
      }
      leaf membership-report-v3 {
        type yang:counter64;
        description
          "The number of membership report v3 messages.";
      }
      leaf leave {
        type yang:counter64;
        description
          "The number of leave messages.";
      }
      leaf non-member-leave {
        type yang:counter64;
        description
          "The number of non member leave messages.";
      }
      leaf pim {
        type yang:counter64;

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 23]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

        description
          "The number of pim hello messages.";
      }
  } // igmp-snooping-statistics-sent-received

  grouping mld-snooping-statistics-sent-received {
    description
      "The statistics attributes for MLD snooping.";

      leaf query {
        type yang:counter64;
        description
          "The number of Multicast Listener Query messages.";
      }
      leaf report-v1 {
        type yang:counter64;
        description
          "The number of Version 1 Multicast Listener Report.";
      }
      leaf report-v2 {
        type yang:counter64;
        description
          "The number of Version 2 Multicast Listener Report.";
      }
      leaf done {
        type yang:counter64;
        description
          "The number of Version 1 Multicast Listener Done.";
      }
      leaf pim {
        type yang:counter64;
        description
          "The number of pim hello messages.";
      }
  } // mld-snooping-statistics-sent-received

  grouping interface-endpoint-attributes-igmp-snooping {

    description "interface attributes for IGMP snooping";

    list host {

      if-feature explicit-tracking;

      key "host-address";

      config false;

      description
       "List of multicast membership hosts"+
        "of the specific multicast source-group.";

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 24]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018


      leaf host-address {
        type inet:ipv4-address;
        description
          "Multicast membership host address.";
      }
      leaf host-filter-mode {
        type enumeration {
          enum "include" {
            description
              "In include mode";
          }
          enum "exclude" {
            description
              "In exclude mode.";
          }
        }
        description
          "Filter mode for a multicast membership
           host may be either include or exclude.";
      }
    }// list host
  } // interface-endpoint-attributes-igmp-snooping

  grouping interface-endpoint-attributes-mld-snooping {

    description "interface endpoint attributes MLD snooping";

    list host {

      if-feature explicit-tracking;

      key "host-address";

      config false;

      description
        "List of multicast membership hosts
        of the specific multicast source-group.";

      leaf host-address {
        type inet:ipv6-address;
        description
          "Multicast membership host address.";
      }
      leaf host-filter-mode {
        type enumeration {
          enum "include" {
            description
              "In include mode";
          }

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 25]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

          enum "exclude" {
            description
              "In exclude mode.";
          }
        }
        description
        "Filter mode for a multicast membership
           host may be either include or exclude.";
      }
    }// list host
  } // interface-endpoint-attributes-mld-snooping

  grouping igmp-snooping-interface-statistics-attributes {

    description "Interface statistics attributes for IGMP snooping";

   container interfaces {
      config false;

       description
         "Interfaces associated with the IGMP snooping instance";

       list interface {
         key "name";

         description
           "Interfaces associated with the IGMP snooping instance";

       leaf name {
           type if:interface-ref;
           description
             "The name of interface";

         }

       container statistics {
           description
             "The interface statistics for IGMP snooping";

           container received {
             description
           "Statistics of received IGMP snooping packets.";

             uses igmp-snooping-statistics-sent-received;
           }
           container sent {
             description
           "Statistics of sent IGMP snooping packets.";

             uses igmp-snooping-statistics-sent-received;
           }

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 26]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

         }
      }
   }
  }   //igmp-snooping-interface-statistics-attributes

  grouping mld-snooping-interface-statistics-attributes {

    description "Interface statistics attributes for MLD snooping";

   container interfaces {
      config false;

       description
         "Interfaces associated with the MLD snooping instance";

       list interface {
         key "name";

         description
           "Interfaces associated with the MLD snooping instance";

       leaf name {
           type if:interface-ref;
           description
             "The name of interface";

         }

       container statistics {
           description
             "The interface statistics for MLD snooping";

           container received {
             description
           "Statistics of received MLD snooping packets.";

             uses mld-snooping-statistics-sent-received;
           }
           container sent {
             description
           "Statistics of sent MLD snooping packets.";

             uses mld-snooping-statistics-sent-received;
           }
         }
      }
   }
  }   //mld-snooping-interface-statistics-attributes


      /*

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 27]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

       * igmp-snooping-instance
       */
  container igmp-snooping-instances {
    description
     "igmp-snooping-instance list";


    list igmp-snooping-instance {
      key "name";
      description
        "IGMP snooping instance to configure the igmp-snooping.";

      leaf name {
        type string;
        description
          "Name of the igmp-snooping-instance";
      }

      leaf type {
        type enumeration {
          enum "bridge" {
            description "BRIDGE";
          }
          enum "l2vpn" {
           description "L2VPN";
          }
        }
        description "The type indicates BRIDGE or L2VPN.";
      }

     uses instance-config-attributes-igmp-snooping;

      uses instance-state-attributes-igmp-snooping;

     uses igmp-snooping-interface-statistics-attributes;

    } //igmp-snooping-instance
  } //igmp-snooping-instances




     /*
       * mld-snooping-instance
       */

  container mld-snooping-instances {
    description
      "mld-snooping-instance list";

    list mld-snooping-instance {

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 28]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

      key "name";
      description
        "MLD snooping instance to configure the mld-snooping.";

      leaf name {
        type string;
        description
          "Name of the mld-snooping-instance";
      }

      leaf type {
        type enumeration {
          enum "bridge" {
            description "BRIDGE";
         }
          enum "l2vpn" {
            description "L2VPN";
         }
        }
        description "The type indicates BRIDGE or L2VPN.";
      }


      uses instance-config-attributes-mld-snooping;

      uses instance-state-attributes-mld-snooping;

     uses mld-snooping-interface-statistics-attributes;

    } //mld-snooping-instance
  } //mld-snooping-instances



 /* augments */

  augment "/dot1q:bridges/dot1q:bridge" {
    description
      "Reference IGMP & MLD snooping instance in BRIDGE scenario";

    leaf igmp-snooping-instance {
      type igmp-snooping-instance-ref;
      description
      "Configure IGMP snooping instance under bridge view";
    }
    leaf mld-snooping-instance {
      type mld-snooping-instance-ref;
      description
      "Configure MLD snooping instance under bridge view";
    }
  }

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 29]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018


  augment "/dot1q:bridges/dot1q:bridge"+
    "/dot1q:component/dot1q:bridge-vlan/dot1q:vlan" {
    description
      "Refrence IGMP & MLD snooping instance in BRIDGE scenario";

    leaf igmp-snooping-instance {
      type igmp-snooping-instance-ref;
      description
       "Configure IGMP snooping instance under VLAN view";
    }

    leaf mld-snooping-instance {
      type mld-snooping-instance-ref;
      description
       "Configure MLD snooping instance under VLAN view";
    }
  }

  augment "/ni:network-instances/ni:network-instance"+
    "/ni:ni-type/l2vpn:l2vpn" {

    description
     "Reference IGMP & MLD snooping instance in L2VPN scenario";

    leaf igmp-snooping-instance {
      type igmp-snooping-instance-ref;
      description
       "Configure IGMP snooping instance in L2VPN scenario";
    }
    leaf mld-snooping-instance {
      type mld-snooping-instance-ref;
      description
       "Configure MLD snooping instance in L2VPN scenario";
    }
  }




 /*  RPCs  */

  rpc clear-igmp-snooping-groups {
    if-feature rpc-clear-groups;
    description
      "Clears the specified IGMP snooping cache tables.";

    input {

      leaf name {
        type string;

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 30]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

        description
          "Name of the igmp-snooping-instance";
      }

      leaf group {
        type inet:ipv4-address;
        description
          "Multicast group IPv4 address.
           If it is not specified, all IGMP snooping group tables
         are cleared.";
      }

      leaf source {
        type inet:ipv4-address;
        description
          "Multicast source IPv4 address.
           If it is not specified, all IGMP snooping source-group
         tables are cleared.";
      }
    }
  } // rpc clear-igmp-snooping-groups

  rpc clear-mld-snooping-groups {
    if-feature rpc-clear-groups;
    description
      "Clears the specified MLD snooping cache tables.";

    input {
      leaf name {
        type string;
        description
          "Name of the mld-snooping-instance";
      }

      leaf group {
        type inet:ipv6-address;
        description
          "Multicast group IPv6 address.
           If it is not specified, all MLD snooping group tables are
           cleared.";
      }

      leaf source {
        type inet:ipv6-address;
        description
          "Multicast source IPv6 address.
           If it is not specified, all MLD snooping source-group
         tables are cleared.";
      }
    }
  } // rpc clear-mld-snooping-groups

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 31]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

}
<CODE ENDS>


4. Security Considerations

   The YANG module specified in this document defines a schema for data
   that is designed to be accessed via network management protocols such
   as NETCONF [RFC6241] or RESTCONF [RFC8040]. The lowest NETCONF layer
   is the secure transport layer, and the mandatory-to-implement secure
   transport is Secure Shell (SSH) [RFC6242]. The lowest RESTCONF layer
   is HTTPS, and the mandatory-to-implement secure transport is TLS
   [RFC5246].

   The NETCONF access control model [RFC6536] provides the means to
   restrict access for particular NETCONF or RESTCONF users to a
   preconfigured subset of all available NETCONF or RESTCONF protocol
   operations and content.

   There are a number of data nodes defined in this YANG module that are
   writable/creatable/deletable (i.e., config true, which is the
   default). These data nodes may be considered sensitive or vulnerable
   in some network environments. Write operations (e.g., edit-config) to
   these data nodes without proper protection can have a negative effect
   on network operations. These are the subtrees and data nodes and
   their sensitivity/vulnerability:

   /ims:igmp-snooping-instances/ims:igmp-snooping-instance

   /ims:mld-snooping-instances/ims:mld-snooping-instance

   Unauthorized access to any data node of these subtrees can adversely
   affect the IGMP & MLD Snooping subsystem of both the local device and
   the network. This may lead to network malfunctions, delivery of
   packets to inappropriate destinations, and other problems.

   Some of the readable data nodes in this YANG module may be considered
   sensitive or vulnerable in some network environments. It is thus
   important to control read access (e.g., via get, get-config, or
   notification) to these data nodes. These are the subtrees and data
   nodes and their sensitivity/vulnerability:

   /ims:igmp-snooping-instances/ims:igmp-snooping-instance

   /ims:mld-snooping-instances/ims:mld-snooping-instance

   Unauthorized access to any data node of these subtrees can disclose
   the operational state information of IGMP & MLD Snooping on this
   device.



Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 32]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

   Some of the RPC operations in this YANG module may be considered
   sensitive or vulnerable in some network environments. It is thus
   important to control access to these operations. The IGMP & MLD
   Snooping Yang module support the "clear-igmp-snooping-groups" and "
   clear-mld-snooping-groups" RPCs. If it meets unauthorized RPC
   operation invocation, the IGMP and MLD Snooping group tables will be
   cleared unexpectedly.



5. IANA Considerations

   RFC Ed.: In this section, replace all occurrences of 'XXXX' with the
   actual RFC number (and remove this note).

   This document registers the following namespace URIs in the IETF XML

   registry [RFC3688]:



   --------------------------------------------------------------------

   URI: urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-igmp-mld-snooping

   Registrant Contact: The IESG.

   XML: N/A, the requested URI is an XML namespace.

   --------------------------------------------------------------------



   This document registers the following YANG modules in the YANG
   Module Names registry [RFC7950]:

   --------------------------------------------------------------------

   name:         ietf-igmp-mld-snooping

   namespace:    urn:ietf:params:xml:ns:yang:ietf-igmp-mld-snooping

   prefix:       ims

   reference:    RFC XXXX

   --------------------------------------------------------------------





Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 33]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

6. Normative References

   [P802.1Qcp/D2.2] IEEE Approved Draft Standard for Local and
             Metropolitan Area Networks, "Bridges and Bridged Networks
             Amendment: YANG Data Model", Mar 2018

   [RFC2236] Fenner, W., "Internet Group Management Protocol, Version
             2", RFC 2236, November 1997.

   [RFC2710] Deering, S., Fenner, W., and B. Haberman, "Multicast
             Listener Discovery (MLD) for IPv6", RFC 2710, October 1999.

   [RFC3376] Cain, B., Deering, S., Kouvelas, I., Fenner, B., and A.
             Thyagarajan, "Internet Group Management Protocol, Version
             3", RFC 3376, October 2002.

   [RFC3810] Vida, R. and L. Costa, "Multicast Listener Discovery
             Version 2 (MLDv2) for IPv6", RFC 3810, June 2004.

   [RFC4541] M. Christensen, K. Kimball, F. Solensky, "Considerations
             for Internet Group Management Protocol (IGMP) and Multicast
             Listener Discovery (MLD) Snooping Switches", RFC 4541, May
             2006.

   [RFC4604] Holbrook, H., Cain, B., and B. Haberman, "Using Internet
             Group Management Protocol Version 3 (IGMPv3) and Multicast
             Listener Discovery Protocol Version 2 (MLDv2) for Source-
             Specific Multicast", RFC 4604, August 2006.

   [RFC4607] Holbrook, H. and B. Cain, "Source-Specific Multicast for
             IP", RFC 4607, August 2006.

   [RFC6020] Bjorklund, M., Ed., "YANG - A Data Modeling Language for
             the Network Configuration Protocol (NETCONF)", RFC 6020,
             October 2010.

   [RFC6021] Schoenwaelder, J., Ed., "Common YANG Data Types", RFC 6021,
             October 2010.

   [RFC6991] Schoenwaelder, J., Ed., "Common YANG Data Types", RFC 6991,
             July 2013.

   [RFC8342] M. Bjorklund and J. Schoenwaelder, "Network Management
             Datastore Architecture (NMDA)", RFC 8342, March 2018.

   [RFC8343] M. Bjorklund, "A YANG Data Model for Interface Management",
             RFC 8343, March 2018.





Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 34]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

   [draft-ietf-pim-igmp-mld-yang-06] X. Liu, F. Guo, M. Sivakumar, P.
             McAllister, A. Peter, "A YANG data model for Internet Group
             Management Protocol (IGMP) and Multicast Listener Discovery
             (MLD)", draft-ietf-pim-igmp-mld-yang-06, Oct 20, 2017.

   [draft-dsdt-nmda-guidelines-01] M. Bjorklund, J. Schoenwaelder, P.
             Shafer, K. Watsen, R. Wilton, "Guidelines for YANG Module
             Authors (NMDA)", draft-dsdt-nmda-guidelines-01, May 2017

   [draft-bjorklund-netmod-rfc7223bis-00] M. Bjorklund, "A YANG Data
             Model for Interface Management",  draft-bjorklund-netmod-
             rfc7223bis-00, August 21, 2017

   [draft-bjorklund-netmod-rfc7277bis-00] M. Bjorklund, "A YANG Data
             Model for IP Management", draft-bjorklund-netmod-
             rfc7277bis-00, August 21, 2017

   [draft-ietf-netmod-revised-datastores-03] M. Bjorklund, J.
             Schoenwaelder, P. Shafer, K. Watsen, R. Wilton, "Network
             Management Datastore Architecture", draft-ietf-netmod-
             revised-datastores-03, July 3, 2017

   [draft-ietf-bess-evpn-yang-02] P.Brissette, A. Sajassi, H. Shah, Z.
             Li, H. Chen, K. Tiruveedhula, I. Hussain, J. Rabadan, "Yang
             Data Model for EVPN", draft-ietf-bess-evpn-yang-02, March
             13, 2017

   [draft-ietf-bess-l2vpn-yang-08] H. Shah, P. Brissette, I. Chen, I.
             Hussain, B. Wen, K. Tiruveedhula, "YANG Data Model for
             MPLS-based L2VPN", draft-ietf-bess-l2vpn-yang-06.txt,
             February 17, 2018

   [draft-ietf-rtgwg-ni-model-12] L. Berger, C. Hopps, A. Lindem, X.
             Liu, "YANG Model for Network Instances", draft-ietf-rtgwg-
             ni-model-12.txt, March 19, 2018

















Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 35]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

Appendix A.  Data Tree Example

This section contains an example of an instance data tree in the JSON

encoding [RFC7951], containing both configuration and state data.




              +-----------+
              +  Source   +
              +-----+-----+
                    |
   -----------------+----------------------------
                    |eth1/1
                +---+---+
                +  R1   +
                +-+---+-+
           eth1/2 |    \ eth1/3
                  |     \
                  |      \
                  |       \
                  |        \
           eth2/1 |         \ eth3/1
              +---+---+   +--+---+
              +  R2   +   +  R3  +
              +---+---+   +--+---+
           eth2/2 |          | eth3/2
                  |          |
   ---------------+----------+-------------------
                  |          |
                  |          |
         +--------+--+   +---+--------+
         + Receiver1 +   +  Receiver2 +
         +-----------+   +------------+

















Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 36]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

The configuration instance data tree for R1 in the above figure could be
as follows:

{
   "ietf-igmp-mld-snooping:igmp-snooping-instances": {
         "igmp-snooping-instance": [
           {
             "name": "ins101",
             "type": "bridge",
             "enable": true
           }
         ]
       },
   "ietf-igmp-mld-snooping:mld-snooping-instances": {
         "mld-snooping-instance": [
           {
             "name": "ins102",
             "type": "bridge",
             "enable": true
           }
         ]
       },
   "ieee802-dot1q-bridge:bridges": {
         "bridge": [
           {
             "name": "isp",
             "address": "00-23-ef-a5-77-12",
             "bridge-type": "ieee802-dot1q-bridge:customer-vlan-bridge",
             "component": [
               {
                 "name": "comp1",
                 "type": "ieee802-dot1q-bridge:c-vlan-component",
                 "bridge-vlan": {
                   "vlan": [
                     {
                       "vid": 101,
                       "ietf-igmp-mld-snooping:igmp-snooping-instance": "ins101"
                     },
                     {
                       "vid": 102,
                       "ietf-igmp-mld-snooping:mld-snooping-instance": "ins102"
                     }
                   ]
                 }
               }
             ]
           }
         ]
       }
   }


Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 37]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

The corresponding operational state data for R1 could be as follows:

{
"ietf-interfaces:interfaces": {
    "interface": [
               {
                  "name": "1/1",
                  "type": "iana-if-type:ethernetCsmacd",
                 "admin-status": "up",
                 "if-index": 214748,
                 "oper-status": "up",
                 "statistics": {
                  "discontinuity-time": "2018-05-23T12:34:56-05:00"
                 }
               },
            {
                 "name": "1/2",
                "type": "iana-if-type:ethernetCsmacd",
                "admin-status": "up",
               "if-index": 214749,
               "oper-status": "up",
               "statistics": {
                  "discontinuity-time": "2018-05-23T12:35:06-05:02"
               }
             }
    ]
 },
"ietf-igmp-mld-snooping:igmp-snooping-instances": {
      "igmp-snooping-instance": [
        {
          "name": "ins101",
          "type": "bridge",
          "enable": true,
        "forwarding-mode": "ip",
        "explicit-tracking": false,
        "exclude-lite": false,
        "send-query": true,
        "immediate-leave": [null],
        "last-member-query-interval": 1,
        "query-interval": 125,
        "query-max-response-time": 10,
        "require-router-alert": false,
        "robustness-variable": 2,
        "entries-count": 1,
        "bridge-mrouter-interface": ["1/1"],
        "group": [
            {
              "address": "223.0.0.1",
              "mac-address": "01:00:5e:00:00:01",
           "expire": 120,


Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 38]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

           "up-time": 180,
           "last-reporter": "100.0.0.1",
           "source": [
                {
                  "address": "192.168.0.1",
                  "bridge-outgoing-interface": ["1/2"],
              "up-time": 180,
              "expire": 120,
              "last-reporter": "100.0.0.1"
                }
              ]
            }
          ],
        "interfaces": {
           "interface": [
             {
              "name": "1/1",
                "statistics": {
                "received": {
                  "query": 5,
                  "membership-report-v1": 0,
                  "membership-report-v2": 0,
                  "membership-report-v3": 0,
                  "leave": 0,
                  "non-member-leave": 0,
                  "pim": 11
                },
                "sent": {
                  "query": 0,
                  "membership-report-v1": 0,
                  "membership-report-v2": 3,
                  "membership-report-v3": 0,
                  "leave": 0,
                  "non-member-leave": 0,
                  "pim": 0
                }
             }
             },
              {
            "name": "1/2",
                "statistics": {
              "received": {
                "query": 0,
                "membership-report-v1": 0,
                "membership-report-v2": 3,
                "membership-report-v3": 0,
                "leave": 0,
                "non-member-leave": 0,
                "pim": 0
              },
              "sent": {

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 39]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

                "query": 5,
                "membership-report-v1": 0,
                "membership-report-v2": 0,
                "membership-report-v3": 0,
                "leave": 0,
                "non-member-leave": 0,
                "pim": 11
              }
            }
              }
           ]
          }
        }
      ]
},
"ietf-igmp-mld-snooping:mld-snooping-instances": {
      "mld-snooping-instance": [
        {
          "name": "ins102",
          "type": "bridge",
          "enable": true,
        "forwarding-mode": "ip",
        "explicit-tracking": false,
        "exclude-lite": false,
        "send-query": true,
        "immediate-leave": [null],
        "last-member-query-interval": 1,
        "query-interval": 125,
        "query-max-response-time": 10,
        "require-router-alert": false,
        "robustness-variable": 2,
        "entries-count": 1,
        "bridge-mrouter-interface": ["1/1"],
        "group": [
            {
              "address": "FF0E::1",
              "mac-address": "01:00:5e:00:00:01",
           "expire": 120,
           "up-time": 180,
           "last-reporter": "2001::1",
           "source": [
                {
                  "address": "3001::1",
                  "bridge-outgoing-interface": ["1/2"],
              "up-time": 180,
              "expire": 120,
              "last-reporter": "2001::1"
                }
              ]
            }
          ],

Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 40]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

        "interfaces": {
           "interface": [
             {
              "name": "1/1",
                "statistics": {
                "received": {
                  "query": 7,
                  "report-v1": 0,
                  "report-v2": 0,
                  "done": 0,
                  "pim": 15
                },
                "sent": {
                  "query": 0,
                  "report-v1": 0,
                  "report-v2": 3,
                  "done": 0,
                  "pim": 0
                }
             }
             },
              {
            "name": "1/2",
                "statistics": {
               "received": {
                  "query": 0,
                  "report-v1": 0,
                  "report-v2": 3,
                  "done": 0,
                  "pim": 0
                },
                "sent": {
                  "query": 7,
                  "report-v1": 0,
                  "report-v2": 0,
                  "done": 0,
                  "pim": 15
                }
            }
            }
           ]
          }
        }
      ]
   }
}






Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 41]

Internet-Draft     IGMP & MLD Snooping Yang Module     October 11, 2018

Authors' Addresses

   Hongji Zhao
   Ericsson (China) Communications Company Ltd.
   Ericsson Tower, No. 5 Lize East Street,
   Chaoyang District Beijing 100102, P.R. China

   Email: hongji.zhao@ericsson.com



   Xufeng Liu
   Jabil
   8281 Greensboro Drive, Suite 200
   McLean VA 22102
   USA

   EMail: Xufeng.liu.ietf@gmail.com




   Yisong Liu
   Huawei Technologies
   Huawei Bld., No.156 Beiqing Rd.
   Beijing 100095
   China

   Email: liuyisong@huawei.com




   Anish Peter
   Individual

   EMail: anish.ietf@gmail.com




   Mahesh Sivakumar
   Cisco Systems
   510 McCarthy Boulevard
   Milpitas, California
   USA


   EMail: sivakumar.mahesh@gmail.com



Zhao & Liu, etc         Expires April 10, 2019                [Page 42] 
