Internet Engineering Task Force                               Ed Lewis
Internet-Draft                                                NAI Labs
February 2, 2001                               Expires: August 2, 2001

            Notes from the State-Of-The-Technology: DNSSEC
                 <draft-lewis-state-of-dnssec-00.txt>

Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other
groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
  http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
  http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

This draft expires on August 2, 2001.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All rights reserved.

Abstract

A meeting of groups involved in the development of the DNS Security
Extensions (DNSSEC) was held in conjunction with the 49th IETF.  The
discussion covered the extent of current efforts, a discussion of what
questions are being asked of DNSSEC, and what is needed by the IETF to
progress the definition to the Draft Standard level.  In short, this
was a DNSSEC status meeting.

1.0 Introduction

DNSSEC [RFC 2535] has been under consideration for quite a few years,
with RFC 2535 being the core of the most recent definition.  DNSSEC is
part of the charter of two working groups, DNSEXT and DNSOP.  ISC's
BIND v8.2 implemented part of the specification, BIND v9 represents
the first full implementation.  In 1999 and 2000, more than a half
dozen workshops have been held to test the concepts and the earliest
versions of implementations.  But to date, DNSSEC is not in common
use.

The current collective wisdom is that DNSSEC is 1) important, 2) a
buzzword, 3) hard, 4) immature.  To capture the true state of the
technology and identify where work is needed, an informal gathering of

Expires August 2, 2001                                      [Page  1]
Internet Draft                                       February 2, 2001

groups known to be involved in DNSSEC was held in conjunction with the
49th IETF.  The attendees represented NLnet Labs, The Foundation for
Internet Infrastructure, RIPE NCC, CAIRN (ISI and NAI Labs), NIST,
DISA, RSSAC, Network Associates and Verisign (COM/NET/ORG TLDs).

The agenda of the meeting consisted of three items.  Reports from each
group on their current research goals were followed by a discussion of
questions being asked of DNSSEC.  Finally, with reaching Draft
standard status as a goal, what was needed to make this happen was
considered.

This report is not simply a transcript of the meeting, it is a
summary.  Some of the information presented here was obtained in
direct contact with participants after the meeting.  If other groups
that are doing DNSSEC research want to be represented in this
document, contact the editor for inclusion.

1.1 What does the term "DNSSEC" mean?

One of the comments made during discussions is that DNSSEC does not
refer to just one monolithic technology.  The term has come to refer
to "toolbox" of techniques and methodologies, that when used properly
can improve the integrity of the DNS.  Given this observation, it can
be seen that some portions of DNSSEC are evolving much more rapidly
than other portions.  In particular, TSIG [RFC something] has
certainly reached a level "being deployable" for zone transfers.

The following four components are considered to be part of DNSSEC. 
The concept of digital signature protection of DNS traffic as
described in RFC 2535 and a few support documents (such as [RFC
3008]), which is designed to protect the transfer of data on an
Internet scale.  The concept of protecting queries and responses
through the less-scalable but more efficient TSIG mechanism [RFC
2845], which has applicability to zone transfers, DHCP registrations,
and other resolver to name server traffic.  Secure dynamic updates
[RFC 3007], by virtue of using TSIG, can be considered to be part of
DNSSEC.  Finally, the definition of the CERT resource record [RFC
2538] gives DNS the ability to become a distribution mechanism for
security data.

This definition of the components of DNSSEC is in no way definitive. 
To be honest, this is a somewhat artificial grouping.  DNSSEC does
not encompass all of the security practiced in DNS today, for example,
the redefinition of when and how data is cached [RFC 2181], plays a
big role in hardening the DNS system.  The four elements of DNSSEC
described in the previous paragraph are grouped together mostly
because they do interrelate, but also they were developed at
approximately the same time.

2.0 Group Reports

The first part of the meeting consisted of reports of goals.  From
this a taxonomy of efforts has been made to see if there are gaps in
the work.

Expires August 2, 2001                                      [Page  2]
Internet Draft                                       February 2, 2001

2.1 NLnet Labs

Efforts by NLnet Labs are directed towards yielding an understanding
of
the impact of DNSSEC on ccTLDs, specifically .de (Germany), .nl (The
Netherlands), and .se (Sweden).  Work to date has studied the problem
of applying digital signatures and NXT records to a zone.  The
conclusion drawn is that there are no real problems regarding memory
or CPU speed when signing large zones, not even for ".com."  NLnet
Labs
has offered to work with Verisign to examine this further.

NLnet Labs is trying to define and document procedures for TLD
registries, registrars and registrants to properly handle actions like
zone-resigning and key-rollover at the root, TLD, and lower levels.
The outcome so far is that the DNSOP Roll Over proposal seems
impractical or possibly even impossible to implement at large TLDs.
NLnet Labs will produce a draft on an alternative KEY+SIG handling
scheme where SIGs are only kept in the zone where the corresponding
zone-KEY is located. This scheme reduces the necessary actions for
resigning zones from 2 levels (current zone and all children) to 1
level (current zone), and for key-rollover from 3 levels (parent,
current zone and all children) to 2 levels (parent and current zone).

2.2 Verisign

Verisign's registry operations and corporate components have been
investigating what DNSSEC means to very large zones, not just from a
hardware point of view, but from an institutional point of view.  
With the service of providing delegations already commercialized, they
are attempting to define what it would take to provide a DNSSEC
service.  An important issue is the parent validation of each
delegated zone's keys.

2.3 The Foundation for Internet Infrastructure

The Foundation for Internet Infrastructure, an organization in Sweden,
is running a project with two parts.  One part is directed at the
"topology" of the participants in DNSSEC, the other part of the
project is directed towards general development of tools.

The study is examining the administrative issues of running DNSSEC. 
One issue is the possible 4-party interaction in the use of DNSSEC. 
The four parties are the registry, the registrar, the registrant, and
the DNS operator.  Of these four parties, any combination may occur
within one entity, such as a registrant that operates their own DNS as
part of their information technology department.

The other part of the study is looking at what happens in the
resolver.  Goals include DNSSEC-enabling tools such as ISAKMPd (an
IPSEC key negotiation software) secure NTP4, and e-mail.  Part of this
effort is implemented in the sigz.net experiment, information on this
exists at www.sigz.net.


Expires August 2, 2001                                      [Page  3]
Internet Draft                                       February 2, 2001

2.4 RSSAC

The RSSAC (Root Server System Advisory Committee) has come to the
conclusion that TSIG is worthwhile and should be deployed.  There is
no schedule for deployment, however.

As for the rest of DNSSEC, there is a need to better understand the
impact of the new features before being introduced into production. 
Currently issues regarding potential testbeds are being documented. 
Two fundamental assumptions are that a DNSSEC testbed involving the
root servers is desirable and that such a testbed would allow for long
term testing.  The latter assumption is based upon the need to
understand how repeated zone key validations can occur at multiple
independent levels of the DNS hierarchy.

2.5 CAIRN

CAIRN (Collaborative Advanced Interagency Research Network) is a
DARPA-sponsored network for collaborative research.  A funded activity
that involves DNSSEC is FMESHD, shorthand for Fault-Tolerant Mesh of
Trust in DNSSEC.  The effort of this activity is to determine a means
of building a resolver's chain of trust when some of the DNS tree is
unavailable or unsecured.  An early deliverable of this is an
extension of secure shell to retrieve keys from DNSSEC.  As part of
this activity, the use of DNSSEC in a non-major provider zone is being
implemented and studied.

2.6 NIST

NIST is collecting performance information regarding DNSSEC.  One of
the fears in adopting DNSSEC is the workload it adds to existing DNS
machine workload.  The hopes of this effort is to quantify the fear,
to see if it is real or imagined.

If time permits, there may be an effort to implement a zone integrity
checking program (implemented in Java) that will look for missteps in
the use of DNSSEC.  Base code exists, but needs work (beyond the
current baseline).

2.7 DISA

The U.S. Defense Information Systems Agency is providing funds to
have DNSSEC implemented in BIND.  Of particular interest is making
sure that the DNSSEC specifications are correct, that BIND adheres to
the specifications, and that BIND is available on the operating
systems in use by the US Department of Defense.  DISA expects that
every line of code developed through this effort be made publicly
available as part of stock BIND releases.

2.8 RIPE NCC

The RIPE NCC is looking at the impact of DNSSEC on IP-registries.  The
RIPE NCC is planning to coordinate and assist in the deployment of
DNSSEC.  Because the RIPE NCC is the Regional Internet Registry for

Expires August 2, 2001                                      [Page  4]
Internet Draft                                       February 2, 2001

Europe the focus will be on the deployment of DNSSEC on the reverse
map tree (in-addr.arpa for IPv4).

2.9 Network Associates

NAI is pressing to get the tislabs.com zone running in accordance with
DNSSEC.  This is an example of a non-Internet service provider
(neither an IP transit, IP address allocation, nor a domain name
managing entity) making use of DNSSEC within the normal operations of
the Information Technology department.

2.10 ip6.int. domain

The name servers authoritative for the ip6.int. domain are mostly
upgraded to be able to support CERT records and TSIG.  Once this is
fully accomplished and proposals are approved, TSIG and CERT records
will be used.  Further DNSSEC work is unknown.

2.11 Topology Based Domain Search

Topology Based Domain Search (TBDS), is a DARPA funded activity
investigating how DNS may continue to run in disconnected parts of the
Internet.  Topics of interest (either covered by this project, or
associated with the project) are the use of split keys, self-signed
zone (keys), and multiple signing algorithms.  A goal is the
establishment of signed infrastructure zones, facilitating the
creation of a distributed CA for activities like IPSEC and FreeSwan.

3.0 Taxonomy of efforts and What is missing

The efforts being undertaken appear to cover a broad range of work
areas, from large domain registries to domain name consumers.  Work
has been progressing in the production of zones (signing, key
management), and is starting in the use (resolver) of DNSSEC secured
data.

>From the discussion, there were no apparent areas lacking attention. 
Additional input in some areas is needed however, particularly in
making use (applications and IT department) of DNSSEC.

4.0 Questions facing DNSSEC

By the 49th IETF meeting, the most pressing question on DNSSEC is "is
it deployable?"  From just the emphasis placed on this question, the
meeting generated a list of questions and made sure that either the
answer was known, or work was being done to address the question.

4.1 Is it deployable?  When?

The usual answer to this has been "not now."  When is always off into
the future - "about a year."  To get to a deployable point, a series
of workshops have been held since the spring of 1999.

At this point, it is becoming clearer than longer term workshops are

Expires August 2, 2001                                      [Page  5]
Internet Draft                                       February 2, 2001

needed.  In going through the motions of any workshop, the number of
issues raised that impact the protocol's specification is diminishing,
as well as implementation issues.  As such, one or two day workshops
have been helping less and less in reaching deployment.

What is needed is to run longer term test configurations, possibly
workshops that are help in conjunction with other events and that
assume continuity.  This will allow a better assessment of the issues
that involve the passage of time - expirations on key validations,
etc.

As was noted in section 1.1, and touched on in section 2, one
component of DNSSEC, TSIG, is more advanced that the others.  Use of
TSIG to protect zone transfers is already matured to the "really good
idea to do stage" even if other elements of DNSSEC are not.  Using
TSIG to protect traffic between local resolver and their "default"
recursive name server still needs more work, however.

4.2 Does DNSSEC work?  Is it the right approach?

Currently there is a lot of effort into making the specification as
proposed work.  There is some effort in assessing the specification at
this point, particularly the value of the NXT records and possible
replacements of it.

There seems little question on value of the KEY and SIG records. 
There is some research still needed on KEY validation across zone
boundaries.  Such work is at least scheduled.

4.3 How will client software make use of DNSSEC?

There are a number of efforts to take existing applications and have
them make direct use of DNSSEC to carry out their functions.  One such
example is secure shell.

When or whether DNSSEC will be understood in the (using POSIX-like
terms) operating systems "gethostbyname" and similar routines has not
been addressed.

4.4 What are the remaining issues?

There are still a few protocol issues.  The NXT resource record is
designed to provide a means to authentically deny data exists.  The
problem is that the solution proposed may be worse that the problem,
in the eyes of some.  There is an alternative proposal, the NO record,
under consideration in the DNSEXT working group.  At the present time,
the DNSEXT working is considering the following question: Is there a
need to authentically deny existence of data, if so, which is better,
NXT (being incumbent) or NO?

Another less defined issue is the mechanism for parent validation of
children signatures.  Although the protocol elements of this are
becoming settled, the operational considerations are not, as evidenced


Expires August 2, 2001                                      [Page  6]
Internet Draft                                       February 2, 2001

by work mentioned in section.  DNSSEC interactions have also been
referenced in discussions over a standard registry-registrar protocol.

5.0 Progressing to Draft Standard

The IETF goal for DNSSEC is to progress the documents through the
standards track [RFC 2026].  Currently, RFC 2535 is the second
iteration at the Proposed standard level.  There is a need to cycle
through Proposed once more.  Following this, the next goal is Draft.

To pass to the Draft Standard level, two main requirements must be
met.  There must be two or more interoperable implementations.  There
must also be sufficient successful operational experience.

5.1 Revision of RFC 2535 via DNSEXT

DNSEXT will soon begin  a rewrite of the RFC 2535 specification (and
its support documents), rolling in updates and clarifications based
upon implementation and testing experience.

5.2 Operations document(s) via DNSOP

DNSOP will continue to be the forum for operations documents based
upon DNSSEC activity.  There is a need for the community to provide
more documents to this group.

5.3 Interoperability

Demonstrating interoperability of DNSSEC, meaning the interaction of
two different implementations when performing DNSSEC work, poses an
issue because, to date, only BIND is seriously being fitted with
DNSSEC.  There are other partial implementations of DNSSEC
functionality, so the potential for partial interoperability
demonstrations may exist.

During the meeting, it was realized that given goals stated, a second
DNSSEC implementation is needed in 18 months.  Various folks in the
room mentioned that they would begin see what could be done about 
this.

6.0 Acknowledgements

The following people attended the meeting and/or provided text for
this report (in no particular order): Mark Kosters (Network
Solutions), Patrik Faltstrom (Cisco), Ted Lindgreen and Miek Gieben
(NLnet Labs), Jaap Akerhuis (SIDN), Olaf Kolkmann (RIPE NCC), Bill
Manning and Dan Massey (ISI), Martin Fredriksson, Hakan Olsson and
Jakob Schlyter (Carlstedt Research & Technology), Doug Montgomery and
Scott Rose (NIST), Johan Ihren and Lars-Johan Liman (Autonomica),
Brian Wellington (Nominum), Kevin Meynell (CENTR), Ed Lewis and Olafur
Gudmundsson (NAI Labs).




Expires August 2, 2001                                      [Page  7]
Internet Draft                                       February 2, 2001

7.0 IANA Considerations

This document does not involve assigned numbers in any way.

8.0 Security Considerations

This document, although a discussion of security enhancements to the
DNS, does not itself impact security.  Where security issues arise,
they will be discussed in the Security Considerations of the
appropriate document.

9.0 References

The text of any RFC may be retrieved by a web browser by requesting
the URL: ftp://ftp.isi.edu/in-notes/rfc<wxyz>.txt, where "wxyz" is the
number of the RFC. 

[RFC 2026] "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3", Bradner
[RFC 2181] " Clarifications to the DNS Specification", Elz and Bush
[RFC 2535] "Domain Name System Security Extensions", Eastlake
[RFC 2538] "Storing Certificates in the Domain Name System" Eastlake
and Gudmundsson
[RFC 2845] "Secret Key Transaction Authentication for DNS (TSIG)",
Vixie, et. al.
[RFC 3007] "Secure Domain Name System Dynamic Update", Wellington
[RFC 3008] "Domain Name System Security Signing Authority", Wellington

10.0 Editor's Address

Edward Lewis
<lewis@tislabs.com>
3060 Washington Rd (Rte 97)
Glenwood, MD 21738
+1(443)259-2352

11.0 Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society 2001.  All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of developing
Internet standards in which case the procedures for copyrights defined
in the Internet Standards process must be followed, or as required to
translate it into languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

Expires August 2, 2001                                      [Page  8]
Internet Draft                                       February 2, 2001


This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
"AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT
NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN
WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
















































Expires August 2, 2001                                      [Page  9]
