Internet Draft                                          Paul Hoffman
draft-hoffman-i18n-terms-00.txt                           IMC & VPNC
November 16, 2000
Expires in six months

         Terminology Used in Internationalization in the IETF

Status of this memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups. Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time. It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

     The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
     http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

     The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
     http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

Abstract

This document provides a glossary of terms used in the IETF when
discussing internationalization. The purpose is to help frame
discussions of internationalization in the various areas of the IETF and
to help introduce the main concepts to IETF participants.

1. Introduction

As [RFC2277] summarizes: "Internationalization is for humans. This means
that protocols are not subject to internationalization; text strings
are." Many protocols throughout the IETF use text strings that are
entered by, or are visible to, humans. It should be possible to make
these text strings readable to anyone, which means that the text must be
able to be displayed in any human language. This is the challenge of
internationalization.

1.1 About this document

Internationalization is discussed in many working groups of the IETF.
However, few working groups have internationalization experts. When
designing or updating protocols, the question often comes up "should we
internationalize this" (or, more likely, "do we have to internationalize
this").

This document gives an overview of internationalization by covering
lightly the many aspects of internationalization and the vocabulary
associated with those topics. It is not meant to be a complete
description of internationalization. The definitions in this document
come from many earlier IETF documents and books.

As in many fields, there is disagreement in the internationalization
community on definitions for many words. The topic of language brings up
particularly passionate opinions for experts and non-experts alike. This
document attempts to define terms to be most useful to the IETF
audience.

Note that this is a very early draft of the document. Many definitions
here will likely change, and some topics may be added. Discussion of
this document is encouraged. Information on the mailing list for this
document can be found at <http://www.imc.org/ietf-i18n-terms/>.

1.2 Foundations for internationalization

language

A language is a way that humans interact. The use of language occurs in
many forms, the most common of which are writing, vocal, and visual.
Each language form is independent: some languages have a close
relationship between the written and vocal forms, while others have a
looser relationship. [RFC1766] and [RFC1766bis] discuss languages in
more detail.

script

A script is the written form of a language. It can be considered a
writing system which has many attributes, such as the number of written
characters and the combining rules for written characters. Most IETF
protocols that deal with languages deal only with scripts, not spoken or
visual forms. [RFC2277] discusses scripts in more detail.

It is common for internationalization novices to mix up the terms
"language" and "script". This can be a problem in protocols that
differentiate the two, such as mail content protocols. Almost all
internationalized protocols deal with scripts (the written systems),
while fewer deal with languages. Many languages can be expressed using
different scripts.

grapheme, phoneme, alphabet

A grapheme is an abstract, atomic written entity of a script. A phoneme
is an abstract, atomic spoken entity of a spoken language. An alphabet
is a script that maps between graphemes and phonemes.

internationalization

In the IETF, the verb "internationalize" means to add or improve the
handling of international information in a protocol. Many protocols that
handle text only handle one script, the one that contains the letters
used in English text. Internationalizing such a protocol means to make
the protocol able to handle more scripts, hopefully all of the ones
useful to anyone in the world.

localization

Internationalized applications can handle a wide variety of languages.
Typical users only understand a small number of languages, so the
program must be tailored to interact with users in just the languages
they know. Localization involves not only changing the language
interaction, but also other relevant changes such as display of numbers,
dates, currency, and so on.

i18n, l10n

These are abbreviations for "internationalization" and "localization".
"18" is the number of characters between the "i" and the "n" in
"internationalization", and "10" is the number of characters between the
"l" and the "n" in "localization".


2. Fundamental Terms

This section covers basic topics that are needed for almost anyone who
is involved with internationalization of IETF protocols. Many terms in
this section are based on [IDN-REQ].

characters

A character is a member of a set of elements used for organization,
control, or representation of data. In written form, a language is
expressed in characters. The same set of characters can often be used in
many languages.

coded character

A coded character is a character with its coded representation. A coded
character set (CCS) is a set of unambiguous rules that establishes a
character set and the relationship between the characters of the set and
their coded representation. The set of characters in a CCS is often
called the "repertoire".

character encoding scheme

A character encoding scheme (CES) is a mapping from one or more coded
character sets to a set of octets. Some CESs are associated with a
single CCS; for example, UTF-8 [RFC2279] applies only to ISO 10646.
Other CESs, such as ISO 2022, are associated with many CCSs.

charset

A charset is a method of mapping a sequence of octets to a sequence of
abstract characters. A charset is, in effect, a combination of one or
more CCS with a CES. Charset names are registered by the IANA according
to procedures documented in [RFC2278]. A particular charset may have
different glyphs depending on the language being used.

transfer encoding syntax

A transfer encoding syntax (TES) is a reversible transform of
already-encoded data represented in one or more character encoding
schemes. TESs are useful for encoding type of character data into an
another format, usually for allowing new types of data to be transmitted
over legacy protocols.



3. Standards Bodies and Standards

This section describes some of the standards bodies and standards that
appear in discussions of internationalization in the IETF. This is an
incomplete and possibly over-full list; listing too few bodies or
standards can be just as politically dangerous as listing too many.

ISO

The International Organization for Standardization has been involved
with standards for scripts since before the IETF was started. ISO is a
non-governmental group made up of national bodies. ISO has many diverse
standards in the international scripts area; the one that is most used
in the IETF is commonly referred to as "ISO 10646" [ISO10646]. ISO 10646
describes a CCS that covers almost all known written characters in use
today.

ISO 10646 is controlled by the group known as "ISO/IEC JTC 1/SC 2 WG2",
often called "WG2" for short. ISO standards go through many steps before
being finished, and years often go by between changes to ISO 10646.
Information on WG2, and its work products, can be found at
<http://anubis.dkuug.dk/JTC1/SC2/WG2/>.

Unicode Consortium

The second important group for international character standards is the
Unicode Consortium. The Unicode Consortium is a trade association of
companies and governments interested in promoting the Unicode Standard
[Unicode3]. The Unicode Standard is a CCS whose repertoire is identical
to ISO 10646. The Unicode Consortium has added features to the base CCS
which make it more useful in protocols, such as defining attributes for
each character.

The Unicode Consortium publishes addenda to the Unicode Standard as
Unicode Technical Reports. There are many types of technical reports at
various stages of maturity. The Unicode Standard and affiliated
technical reports can be found at <http://www.unicode.org/>

encodings and transformations of ISO 10646

Characters in the ISO 10646 CCS can be expressed in many ways. Encoding
forms are direct addressing methods, while transformation formats are
methods for expressing encoding forms as bits on the wire. Two encoding
forms are defined for ISO 10646:

UCS-2 addresses the first 2^15 characters as 16-bit values. This range
is also called the "Basic Multilingual Plane" (BMP), and is also called
"plane 0".

UCS-4 addresses the entire range of 2^31 characters as 32-bit values.

There are many transformation formats of the CCS that are used in IETF
standards. The two most common are:

UTF-8, defined in [RFC2279], is the preferred encoding for IETF
protocols. Characters in the BMP are encoded as one, two, or three
octets.

UTF-16 (BE & LE), defined in [RFC2781], is used much less often than
UTF-8. Characters in the BMP are always encoded as two octets, and many
characters outside the BMP as four octets.

native CCSs and charsets

Before ISO 10646 was developed, many countries developed their own CCSs
and charsets. Many dozen of these are in common use on the Internet
today. Examples include the ISO 2022 series, the ISO 8859 series, and
Shift-JIS. The official list of the registered charset tags is
maintained by IANA.

ASCII

Probably the most well-known native CCS is ASCII [US-ASCII]. This CCS is
used in numerous IETF protocols that have not yet been
internationalized.

local and regional standards organizations

Just as there are many native CCSs and charsets, there are many local
and regional standards organizations to create and support them. Common
examples of these are ANSI (United States), JIS (Japan), GB (China), and
ETSI (Europe).


4. Linguistic Issues

This section contains terms and topics that are commonly used in
linguistics and therefore are of concern to people internationalizing
protocols. These topics are standardized outside the IETF.

composition and decomposition

In some CCSs, some characters consist of combinations of other
characters. For example, the letter "a with acute" might be a
combination of the two characters "a" and "combining acute". The rules
for combining two or more characters are called "composition", and the
rules for taking apart a character into other characters is called
"decomposition".

normalization and canonicalization

These two terms are often used interchangeably in internationalization.
Generally, they both mean to convert a string of one or more characters
into another string based on standardized rules. In internationalized
text, these rules are usually based on decomposing combined characters
or composing characters with combining characters. [UTR15] describes the
process and many forms of normalization in detail.

locale and region

Because languages differ from country to country (and even region to
region within a country), the locale of the user of internationalized
text can often be an important factor. Typically, the locale information
for a user includes the language(s) used. Locale issues go beyond
character use, and can include things such as the display format for
currency, dates, and times.

case

In many scripts, particularly those from or based on European alphabets,
there are two forms for letters: uppercase and lowercase. There is
usually (but not always) a one-to-one mapping between the same letter in
the two cases. However, there are many examples of characters which
exist in one case but for which there is no corresponding character in
the other case. Case conversion can even be dependant on locale.
Converting between the two cases is sometimes called "folding".

sorting

The characters in a CCS each have a code point, and the code points can
be sorted, but the result of sorting characters based on code points is
often not what a native reader of the language would expect. Therefore,
there are many different rules for sorting that depend on the CCS, on
the language, and on the locale.

glyph

A graphic character or glyph is a character, other than a control
function, that has a visual representation normally handwritten,
printed, or displayed. There are many types of glyphs, including
alphabetic characters, digits, punctuation, diacritics, and symbols.

types of characters
    alphabetic
    ideographic
    symbol
    spacing character
    punctuation
    diacritic
    combining character
    control character
    formatting character


5. User interface for text

Although the IETF does not standardize user interfaces, many protocols
make assumptions about how a user will enter or see text that is used in
the protocol. Many protocols make inherent assumptions such as that text
will be typed on a standard (that is, US-centric) keyboard, or that text
will be displayed on a character-based monitor. Internationalization
challenges assumptions like these, and it is therefore useful to
consider how users typically interact with internationalized text.

input methods
display methods
rendering characters
bidirectional scripts
undisplayable text

6. Text in current IETF protocols

Many IETF protocols started off being fully internationalized, while
others have been internationalized as they were revised. In this
process, IETF members have seen patters in the way that many protocols
use text. This section describes some specific protocol interactions
with text.

protocol elements
on-the-wire encoding
name spaces
identifiers
charset tagging
language tagging
MIME
base64
quoted printable
ASN.1 text formats
ASCII-compatible encoding

7. Other Common Terms In Internationalization

This is a hodge-podge of other terms that have appeared in
internationalization discussions in the IETF. It is likely that
additional terms will be added as this document matures.

Latin
romanization
CJK and Han
compression
translation
regular expressions
private use characters


8. Security Considerations

Security is not discussed in this document.


9. References

[IDN-REQ] "Requirements of Internationalized Domain Names", work in
progress (draft-ietf-idn-requirements), Z. Wenzel and J. Seng.

[ISO10646] ISO/IEC 10646-1:1993. International Standard -- Information
technology -- Universal Multiple-Octet Coded Character Set (UCS) --
Part 1: Architecture and Basic Multilingual Plane.  Five amendments and
a technical corrigendum have been published up to now. UTF-16 is
described in Annex Q, published as Amendment 1. 17 other amendments are
currently at various stages of standardization.

[RFC1766] "Tags for the Identification of Languages", RFC 1766, H.
Alvestrand.

[RFC1766bis] "Tags for the Identification of Languages", work in
progress (draft-alvestrand-lang-tag-v2), H. Alvestrand.

[RFC2277] "IETF Policy on Character Sets and Languages", RFC 2277, H.
Alvestrand.

[RFC2279] "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646", RFC 2279, F.
Yergeau.

[RFC2781] "UTF-16, an encoding of ISO 10646", RFC 2781,
P. Hoffman and F. Yergeau.

[Unicode3] The Unicode Consortium, "The Unicode Standard -- Version
3.0", ISBN 0-201-61633-5. Described at
<http://www.unicode.org/unicode/standard/versions/Unicode3.0.html>.

[US-ASCII]  Coded Character Set -- 7-bit American Standard Code for
Information Interchange, ANSI X3.4-1986.

[UTR15] "Unicode Normalization Forms", Unicode Technical Report
#15, M. Davis & M. Duerst.



10. Additional Interesting Reading

ALA-LC Romanization Tables, Randall Barry (ed.), ISBN 0844409405

Blackwell Encyclopedia of Writing Systems, Florian Coulmas, ISBN
063121481X

MultiLingual Computing & Technology magazine, ISSN 1098-7665

Unicode Standard version 3.0, Unicode Consortium, ISBN 0201616335

Writing Systems of the World, Akira Nakanishi, ISBN 0804816549


A. Acknowledgements

The definitions in this document come from many sources, including
a wide variety of IETF documents.

James Seng contributed to the initial outline of this document.


B. Author Contact Information

Paul Hoffman
Internet Mail Consortium and VPN Consortium
127 Segre Place
Santa Cruz, CA  95060 USA
paul.hoffman@imc.org and paul.hoffman@vpnc.org
