






IDMR Working Group                                   Keith McCloghrie
INTERNET-DRAFT                                         Dino Farinacci
Expires January 1999                                    cisco Systems
                                                          Dave Thaler
                                                            Microsoft
                                                         23 July 1998



                        IP Multicast Routing MIB
               <draft-ietf-idmr-multicast-routmib-07.txt>





Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
``1id-abstracts.txt'' listing contained in the Internet- Drafts Shadow
Directories on ftp.ietf.org (US East Coast), nic.nordu.net (Europe),
ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast), or munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim).



Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1998).  All Rights Reserved.

1.  Introduction

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in the Internet
community.  In particular, it describes managed objects used for
managing IP Multicast Routing [16], independent of the specific





Expires January 1999                                            [Page 1]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


multicast routing protocol [17-21] in use.  Managed objects specific to
particular multicast routing protocols are specified elsewhere.


2.  Revision History

A record of changes which will be removed before publication.

23 July 1998

(1)  added ipMRouteRtProto, ipMRouteRtAddr, ipMRouteRtMask, and
     ipMRouteRtType to get the route used by the multicast forwarding
     entry.  This provides functionality equivalent to mtrace.

(2)  added ipMRouteScopeTable for mapping admin boundaries to user-
     friendly scope names.

(3)  changed comments on pimSparseMode and pimDenseMode enumeration
     values to clarify that they may be used for PIMv1.

(4)  added security considerations and copyright notice

20 November 1997

(1)  made ipMRouteInterfaceProtocol read-only.

(2)  added ipMRouteInterfaceRateLimit, ipMRouteInterfaceInMcastOctets,
     ipMRouteInterfaceOutMcastOctets, ipMRouteInterfaceHCInMcastOctets,
     and ipMRouteInterfaceHCOutMcastOctets, with the HC objects in a new
     conformance group.

26 March

(1)  added ipMRouteInterfaceProtocol.

(2)  added protocol values for PIM-DM, PIM-SM, and IGMP-only links.

26 November

(1)  moved ipMRouteNextHopPkts to its own conformance group.

9 June

(1)  added the ipMRouteBoundaryTable and ipMRouteNextHopPkts.






Expires January 1999                                            [Page 2]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


(2)  updated references, etc.

28 March

(1)  renamed ipMRouteNextHopClosestMember to
     ipMRouteNextHopClosestMemberHops, and ipMRouteDifferentInIfIndexes
     to ipMRouteDifferentInIfPacket.

26 February

(1)  added ipMRouteNextHopAddress as a INDEX variable for the
     ipMRouteNextHopTable.

(2)  added ipMRouteNextHopClosestMember and ipMRouteNextHopProtocol

(3)  added ipMRouteMIBHopCountGroup.

(4)  specified that an expiry-time of zero means that an entry is not
     subject to aging.

(5)  added references for MOSPF and CBT.

4 February

(1)  removed ipMRouteOutList

(2)  Modified ipMRouteNextHopTable to be INDEX-ed by
     ipMRouteNextHopGroup, ipMRouteNextHopSource,
     ipMRouteNextHopSourceMask, and ipMRouteNextHopIfIndex.

(3)  added ipMRouteProtocol

(4)  replaced "RPF" terminology with "Upstream neighbor".

15 July - initial version.


3.  The SNMP Management Framework

The SNMP Management Framework presently consists of five major
components:

o    An overall architecture, described in RFC 2271 [1].







Expires January 1999                                            [Page 3]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


o    Mechanisms for describing and naming objects and events for the
     purpose of management. The first version of this Structure of
     Management Information (SMI) is called SMIv1 and described in RFC
     1155 [2], RFC 1212 [3] and RFC 1215 [4]. The second version, called
     SMIv2, is described in RFC 1902 [5], RFC 1903 [6] and RFC 1904 [7].

o    Message protocols for transferring management information. The
     first version of the SNMP message protocol is called SNMPv1 and
     described in RFC 1157 [8]. A second version of the SNMP message
     protocol, which is not an Internet standards track protocol, is
     called SNMPv2c and described in RFC 1901 [9] and RFC 1906 [10].
     The third version of the message protocol is called SNMPv3 and
     described in RFC 1906 [10], RFC 2272 [11] and RFC 2274 [12].

o    Protocol operations for accessing management information. The first
     set of protocol operations and associated PDU formats is described
     in RFC 1157 [8]. A second set of protocol operations and associated
     PDU formats is described in RFC 1905 [13].

o    A set of fundamental applications described in RFC 2273 [14] and
     the view-based access control mechanism described in RFC 2275 [15].

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the mechanisms defined in the SMI.

This memo specifies a MIB module that is compliant to the SMIv2. A MIB
conforming to the SMIv1 can be produced through the appropriate
translations. The resulting translated MIB must be semantically
equivalent, except where objects or events are omitted because no
translation is possible (use of Counter64). Some machine readable
information in SMIv2 will be converted into textual descriptions in
SMIv1 during the translation process. However, this loss of machine
readable information is not considered to change the semantics of the
MIB.


3.1.  Object Definitions

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) defined in the
SMI.  In particular, each object type is named by an OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
an administratively assigned name.  The object type together with an
object instance serves to uniquely identify a specific instantiation of





Expires January 1999                                            [Page 4]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


the object.  For human convenience, we often use a textual string,
termed the descriptor, to refer to the object type.


4.  Overview

This MIB module contains one scalar and five tables.  The tables are:

(1)  the IP Multicast Route Table containing multicast routing
     information for IP datagrams sent by particular sources to the IP
     multicast groups known to a router.

(2)  the IP Multicast Routing Next Hop Table containing information on
     the next hops for the routing IP multicast datagrams.  Each entry
     is one of a list of next hops on outgoing interfaces for particular
     sources sending to a particular multicast group address.

(3)  the IP Multicast Routing Interface Table containing multicast
     routing information specific to interfaces.

(4)  the IP Multicast Scope Table containing multicast scopes [22].

(5)  the IP Multicast Scoped Boundary Table containing the boundaries
     configured for multicast scopes.


























Expires January 1999                                            [Page 5]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


5.  Definitions

IPMROUTE-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, experimental,
    Integer32, Counter32, Counter64,
    IpAddress, TimeTicks             FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    DisplayString, RowStatus         FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP  FROM SNMPv2-CONF;

ipMRouteMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9807231200Z"
    ORGANIZATION "IETF IDMR Working Group."
    CONTACT-INFO
            " Dave Thaler
              Microsoft Corporation
              One Microsoft Way
              Redmond, WA  48105-6399
              US

              Phone: +1 425 703 8835
              EMail: dthaler@microsoft.com"
    DESCRIPTION
            "The MIB module for management of IP Multicast routing, but
            independent of the specific multicast routing protocol in
            use."
    ::= { experimental 60 }


ipMRouteMIBObjects OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ipMRouteMIB 1 }

ipMRoute      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ipMRouteMIBObjects 1 }

















Expires January 1999                                            [Page 6]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


-- the IP Multicast Routing MIB-Group
--
-- a collection of objects providing information about
-- IP Multicast Groups


ipMRouteEnable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER { enabled(1), disabled(2) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The enabled status of IP Multicast routing on this router."
    ::= { ipMRoute 1 }


ipMRouteTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF IpMRouteEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table containing multicast routing
            information for IP datagrams sent by particular sources to
            the IP multicast groups known to this router."
    ::= { ipMRoute 2 }

ipMRouteEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpMRouteEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) containing the multicast routing
            information for IP datagrams from a particular source and
            addressed to a particular IP multicast group address."
    INDEX      { ipMRouteGroup,
                 ipMRouteSource,
                 ipMRouteSourceMask }
    ::= { ipMRouteTable 1 }













Expires January 1999                                            [Page 7]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


IpMRouteEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    ipMRouteGroup                 IpAddress,
    ipMRouteSource                IpAddress,
    ipMRouteSourceMask            IpAddress,
    ipMRouteUpstreamNeighbor      IpAddress,
    ipMRouteInIfIndex             Integer32,
    ipMRouteUpTime                TimeTicks,
    ipMRouteExpiryTime            TimeTicks,
    ipMRoutePkts                  Counter32,
    ipMRouteDifferentInIfPackets  Counter32,
    ipMRouteOctets                Counter32,
    ipMRouteProtocol              INTEGER,
    ipMRouteRtProto               INTEGER,
    ipMRouteRtAddress             IpAddress,
    ipMRouteRtMask                IpAddress,
    ipMRouteRtType                INTEGER
}

ipMRouteGroup OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP multicast group address for which this entry
            contains multicast routing information."
    ::= { ipMRouteEntry 1 }

ipMRouteSource OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The network address which when combined with the
            corresponding value of ipMRouteSourceMask identifies the
            sources for which this entry contains multicast routing
            information."
    ::= { ipMRouteEntry 2 }

ipMRouteSourceMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The network mask which when combined with the corresponding
            value of ipMRouteSource identifies the sources for which





Expires January 1999                                            [Page 8]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


            this entry contains multicast routing information."
    ::= { ipMRouteEntry 3 }

ipMRouteUpstreamNeighbor OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The address of the upstream neighbor (e.g., RPF neighbor)
            from which IP datagrams from these sources to this multicast
            address are received, or 0.0.0.0 if the upstream neighbor is
            unknown (e.g., in CBT)."
    ::= { ipMRouteEntry 4 }

ipMRouteInIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of ifIndex for the interface on which IP
            datagrams sent by these sources to this multicast address
            are received.  A value of 0 indicates that datagrams are not
            subject to an incoming interface check, but may be accepted
            on multiple interfaces (e.g., in CBT)."
    ::= { ipMRouteEntry 5 }

ipMRouteUpTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The time since the multicast routing information
            represented by this entry was learned by the router."
    ::= { ipMRouteEntry 6 }

ipMRouteExpiryTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The minimum amount of time remaining before this entry will
            be aged out.  The value 0 indicates that the entry is not
            subject to aging."
    ::= { ipMRouteEntry 7 }






Expires January 1999                                            [Page 9]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


ipMRoutePkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of packets which this router has received from
            these sources and addressed to this multicast group
            address."
    ::= { ipMRouteEntry 8 }

ipMRouteDifferentInIfPackets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of packets which this router has received from
            these sources and addressed to this multicast group address,
            which were not received from the interface indicated by
            ipMRouteInIfIndex."
    ::= { ipMRouteEntry 9 }

ipMRouteOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of octets contained in IP datagrams which were
            received from these sources and addressed to this multicast
            group address, and which were forwarded by this router."
    ::= { ipMRouteEntry 10 }

ipMRouteProtocol OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                   other(1),          -- none of the following
                   local(2),          -- e.g., manually configured
                   netmgmt(3),        -- set via net.mgmt protocol
                   dvmrp(4),
                   mospf(5),
                   pimSparseDense(6), -- PIMv1, both DM and SM
                   cbt(7),
                   pimSparseMode(8),  -- PIM-SM
                   pimDenseMode(9),   -- PIM-DM
                   igmpOnly(10)
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only





Expires January 1999                                           [Page 10]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The multicast routing protocol via which this multicast
            forwarding entry was learned.  Inclusion of values for
            multicast routing protocols is not intended to imply that
            those protocols need be supported."
    ::= { ipMRouteEntry 11 }

ipMRouteRtProto OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                other     (1),  -- not specified
                local     (2),  -- local interface
                netmgmt   (3),  -- static route
                icmp      (4),  -- result of ICMP Redirect
                        -- the following are all dynamic
                        -- routing protocols
                egp        (5),  -- Exterior Gateway Protocol
                ggp        (6),  -- Gateway-Gateway Protocol
                hello      (7),  -- FuzzBall HelloSpeak
                rip        (8),  -- Berkeley RIP or RIP-II
                isIs       (9),  -- Dual IS-IS
                esIs       (10), -- ISO 9542
                ciscoIgrp  (11), -- Cisco IGRP
                bbnSpfIgp  (12), -- BBN SPF IGP
                ospf       (13), -- Open Shortest Path First
                bgp        (14), -- Border Gateway Protocol
                idpr       (15), -- InterDomain Policy Routing
                ciscoEigrp (16), -- Cisco EIGRP
                dvmrp      (17)  -- DVMRP
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The routing mechanism via which the route used for this
            multicast forwarding entry was learned.  Inclusion of values
            for routing protocols is not intended to imply that those
            protocols need be supported."
    ::= { ipMRouteEntry 12 }

ipMRouteRtAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The address portion of the route used for this multicast





Expires January 1999                                           [Page 11]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


            forwarding entry."
    ::= { ipMRouteEntry 13 }

ipMRouteRtMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The mask associated with the route used for this multicast
            forwarding entry."
    ::= { ipMRouteEntry 14 }

ipMRouteRtType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                unicast   (1), -- Unicast route used in multicast RIB
                multicast (2)  -- Multicast route
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The reason the given route was placed in the (logical)
            multicast RIB.  A value of unicast means that the route
            would normally be placed only in the unicast RIB, but was
            placed in the multicast RIB (instead or in addition) due to
            local configuration, such as when running PIM over RIP.  A
            value of multicast means that the route was explicitly added
            to the multicast RIB by the routing protocol, such as DVMRP
            or Multiprotocol BGP."
    ::= { ipMRouteEntry 15 }





















Expires January 1999                                           [Page 12]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


--
--  The IP Multicast Routing Next Hop Table
--

ipMRouteNextHopTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF IpMRouteNextHopEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table containing information on the next
            hops on outgoing interfaces for routing IP multicast
            datagrams.  Each entry is one of a list of next hops on
            outgoing interfaces for particular sources sending to a
            particular multicast group address."
    ::= { ipMRoute 3 }

ipMRouteNextHopEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpMRouteNextHopEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the list of next hops on
            outgoing interfaces to which IP multicast datagrams from
            particular sources to a IP multicast group address are
            routed."
    INDEX      { ipMRouteNextHopGroup, ipMRouteNextHopSource,
                 ipMRouteNextHopSourceMask, ipMRouteNextHopIfIndex,
                 ipMRouteNextHopAddress }
    ::= { ipMRouteNextHopTable 1 }





















Expires January 1999                                           [Page 13]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


IpMRouteNextHopEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    ipMRouteNextHopGroup              IpAddress,
    ipMRouteNextHopSource             IpAddress,
    ipMRouteNextHopSourceMask         IpAddress,
    ipMRouteNextHopIfIndex            Integer32,
    ipMRouteNextHopAddress            IpAddress,
    ipMRouteNextHopState              INTEGER,
    ipMRouteNextHopUpTime             TimeTicks,
    ipMRouteNextHopExpiryTime         TimeTicks,
    ipMRouteNextHopClosestMemberHops  Integer32,
    ipMRouteNextHopProtocol           INTEGER,
    ipMRouteNextHopPkts               Counter32
}

ipMRouteNextHopGroup OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP multicast group for which this entry specifies a
            next hop on an outgoing interface."
    ::= { ipMRouteNextHopEntry 1 }

ipMRouteNextHopSource OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The network address which when combined with the
            corresponding value of ipMRouteNextHopSourceMask identifies
            the sources for which this entry specifies a next hop on an
            outgoing interface."
    ::= { ipMRouteNextHopEntry 2 }

ipMRouteNextHopSourceMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The network mask which when combined with the corresponding
            value of ipMRouteNextHopSource identifies the sources for
            which this entry specifies a next hop on an outgoing
            interface."
    ::= { ipMRouteNextHopEntry 3 }






Expires January 1999                                           [Page 14]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


ipMRouteNextHopIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The ifIndex value of the interface for the outgoing
            interface for this next hop."
    ::= { ipMRouteNextHopEntry 4 }

ipMRouteNextHopAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The address of the next hop specific to this entry.  For
            most interfaces, this is identical to ipMRouteNextHopGroup.
            NBMA interfaces, however, may have multiple next hop
            addresses out a single outgoing interface."
    ::= { ipMRouteNextHopEntry 5 }

ipMRouteNextHopState OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER { pruned(1), forwarding(2) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An indication of whether the outgoing interface and next
            hop represented by this entry is currently being used to
            forward IP datagrams.  The value 'forwarding' indicates it
            is currently being used; the value 'pruned' indicates it is
            not."
    ::= { ipMRouteNextHopEntry 6 }

ipMRouteNextHopUpTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The time since the multicast routing information
            represented by this entry was learned by the router."
    ::= { ipMRouteNextHopEntry 7 }

ipMRouteNextHopExpiryTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current





Expires January 1999                                           [Page 15]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


    DESCRIPTION
            "The minimum amount of time remaining before this entry will
            be aged out.  The value 0 indicates that the entry is not
            subject to aging."
    ::= { ipMRouteNextHopEntry 8 }

ipMRouteNextHopClosestMemberHops OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The minimum number of hops between this router and any
            member of this IP multicast group reached via this next hop
            on this outgoing interface.  Any IP multicast datagrams for
            the group which have a TTL less than this number of hops
            will not be forwarded to this next hop."
    ::= { ipMRouteNextHopEntry 9 }

ipMRouteNextHopProtocol OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                   other(1),          -- none of the following
                   local(2),          -- e.g., manually configured
                   netmgmt(3),        -- set via net.mgmt protocol
                   dvmrp(4),
                   mospf(5),
                   pimSparseDense(6), -- PIMv1, both DM and SM
                   cbt(7),
                   pimSparseMode(8),  -- PIM-SM
                   pimDenseMode(9),   -- PIM-DM
                   igmpOnly(10)
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The routing mechanism via which this next-hop was learned."
    ::= { ipMRouteNextHopEntry 10 }

ipMRouteNextHopPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of packets which have been forwarded using this
            route."
    ::= { ipMRouteNextHopEntry 11 }





Expires January 1999                                           [Page 16]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


--
--  The Multicast Routing Interface Table
--

ipMRouteInterfaceTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF IpMRouteInterfaceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table containg multicast routing
            information specific to interfaces."
    ::= { ipMRoute 4 }

ipMRouteInterfaceEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpMRouteInterfaceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) containing the multicast routing
            information for a particular interface."
    INDEX      { ipMRouteInterfaceIfIndex }
    ::= { ipMRouteInterfaceTable 1 }

IpMRouteInterfaceEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    ipMRouteInterfaceIfIndex          Integer32,
    ipMRouteInterfaceTtl              Integer32,
    ipMRouteInterfaceProtocol         INTEGER,
    ipMRouteInterfaceRateLimit        Integer32,
    ipMRouteInterfaceInMcastOctets    Counter32,
    ipMRouteInterfaceOutMcastOctets   Counter32,
    ipMRouteInterfaceHCInMcastOctets  Counter64,
    ipMRouteInterfaceHCOutMcastOctets Counter64
}

ipMRouteInterfaceIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The ifIndex value of the interface for which this entry
            contains information."
    ::= { ipMRouteInterfaceEntry 1 }

ipMRouteInterfaceTtl OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32





Expires January 1999                                           [Page 17]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The datagram TTL threshold for the interface. Any IP
            multicast datagrams with a TTL less than this threshold will
            not be forwarded out the interface. The default value of 0
            means all multicast packets are forwarded out the
            interface."
    ::= { ipMRouteInterfaceEntry 2 }

ipMRouteInterfaceProtocol OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                   other(1),          -- none of the following
                   local(2),          -- e.g., static routing
                   netmgmt(3),        -- set via net.mgmt protocol
                   dvmrp(4),
                   mospf(5),
                   pimSparseDense(6), -- PIMv1, both DM and SM
                   cbt(7),
                   pimSparseMode(8),  -- PIM-SM
                   pimDenseMode(9),   -- PIM-DM
                   igmpOnly(10)
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The routing protocol running on this interface."
    ::= { ipMRouteInterfaceEntry 3 }

ipMRouteInterfaceRateLimit OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The rate-limit, in kilobits per second, of forwarded
            multicast traffic on the interface.  A rate-limit of 0
            indicates that no rate limiting is done."
    DEFVAL     { 0 }
    ::= { ipMRouteInterfaceEntry 4 }

ipMRouteInterfaceInMcastOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION





Expires January 1999                                           [Page 18]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


            "The number of octets of multicast packets that have arrived
            on the interface."
    ::= { ipMRouteInterfaceEntry 5 }

ipMRouteInterfaceOutMcastOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of octets of multicast packets that have been
            sent on the interface."
    ::= { ipMRouteInterfaceEntry 6 }

ipMRouteInterfaceHCInMcastOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of octets of multicast packets that have arrived
            on the interface.  This object is a 64-bit version of
            ipMRouteInterfaceInMcastOctets."
    ::= { ipMRouteInterfaceEntry 7 }

ipMRouteInterfaceHCOutMcastOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of octets of multicast packets that have been
            sent on the interface.  This object is a 64-bit version of
            ipMRouteInterfaceOutMcastOctets."
    ::= { ipMRouteInterfaceEntry 8 }


















Expires January 1999                                           [Page 19]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


--
--  The IP Multicast Scoped Boundary Table
--

ipMRouteBoundaryTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF IpMRouteBoundaryEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing the router's scoped
            multicast address boundaries."
    ::= { ipMRoute 5 }

ipMRouteBoundaryEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpMRouteBoundaryEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the ipMRouteBoundaryTable
            representing a scoped boundary."
    INDEX      { ipMRouteBoundaryIfIndex, ipMRouteBoundaryAddress,
                 ipMRouteBoundaryAddressMask }
    ::= { ipMRouteBoundaryTable 1 }

IpMRouteBoundaryEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    ipMRouteBoundaryIfIndex            Integer32,
    ipMRouteBoundaryAddress            IpAddress,
    ipMRouteBoundaryAddressMask        IpAddress,
    ipMRouteBoundaryStatus             RowStatus
}

ipMRouteBoundaryIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IfIndex value for the interface to which this boundary
            applies.  Packets with a destination address in the
            associated address/mask range will not be forwarded out this
            interface."
    ::= { ipMRouteBoundaryEntry 1 }

ipMRouteBoundaryAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible





Expires January 1999                                           [Page 20]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The group address which when combined with the
            corresponding value of ipMRouteBoundaryAddressMask
            identifies the group range for which the scoped boundary
            exists.  Scoped addresses must come from the range
            239.x.x.x."
    ::= { ipMRouteBoundaryEntry 2 }

ipMRouteBoundaryAddressMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The group address mask which when combined with the
            corresponding value of ipMRouteBoundaryAddress identifies
            the group range for which the scoped boundary exists."
    ::= { ipMRouteBoundaryEntry 3 }

ipMRouteBoundaryStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this row, by which new entries may be
            created, or old entries deleted from this table.  Adding an
            entry in this from this table should have the additional
            effect of adding a row for the prefix in the
            ipMRouteScopeTable if no such already exists."
    ::= { ipMRouteBoundaryEntry 4 }


--
--  The IP Multicast Scope Table
--

ipMRouteScopeTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF IpMRouteScopeEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing the multicast scopes for
            which the router has scope boundaries."
    ::= { ipMRoute 6 }






Expires January 1999                                           [Page 21]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


ipMRouteScopeEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpMRouteScopeEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the ipMRouteScopeTable
            representing a multicast scope."
    INDEX      { ipMRouteScopeAddress,
                 ipMRouteScopeAddressMask }
    ::= { ipMRouteScopeTable 1 }

IpMRouteScopeEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    ipMRouteScopeAddress            IpAddress,
    ipMRouteScopeAddressMask        IpAddress,
    ipMRouteScopeName               DisplayString,
    ipMRouteScopeStatus             RowStatus
}

ipMRouteScopeAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The group address which when combined with the
            corresponding value of ipMRouteScopeAddressMask identifies
            the group range associated with the multicast scope.  Scoped
            addresses must come from the range 239.x.x.x."
    ::= { ipMRouteScopeEntry 1 }

ipMRouteScopeAddressMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The group address mask which when combined with the
            corresponding value of ipMRouteScopeAddress identifies the
            group range associated with the multicast scope."
    ::= { ipMRouteScopeEntry 2 }

ipMRouteScopeName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     DisplayString (SIZE (1..255))
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The textual name associated with the multicast scope.  The





Expires January 1999                                           [Page 22]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


            value of this object should be suitable for displaying to
            end-users, such as when allocating a multicast address in
            this scope.  When no name is specified, the default value of
            this object should be the string 239.x.x.x/y with x and y
            replaced appropriately to describe the address and mask
            length associated with the scope."
    ::= { ipMRouteScopeEntry 3 }

ipMRouteScopeStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this row, by which new entries may be
            created, or old entries deleted from this table.  Deleting
            an entry from this table should have the additional effect
            of removing all boundaries for this scope from the
            ipMRouteBoundaryTable."
    ::= { ipMRouteScopeEntry 4 }































Expires January 1999                                           [Page 23]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


-- conformance information

ipMRouteMIBConformance
                  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ipMRouteMIB 2 }
ipMRouteMIBCompliances
                  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ipMRouteMIBConformance 1 }
ipMRouteMIBGroups  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ipMRouteMIBConformance 2 }


-- compliance statements

ipMRouteMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for the IP Multicast MIB."
    MODULE  -- this module
    MANDATORY-GROUPS { ipMRouteMIBBasicGroup,
                       ipMRouteMIBRouteGroup}

        GROUP   ipMRouteMIBBoundaryGroup
        DESCRIPTION
            "This group is only required to support management of scoped
            multicast address boundaries."

        OBJECT      ipMRouteBoundaryStatus
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
        DESCRIPTION
            "Write access is not required."

        OBJECT      ipMRouteScopeStatus
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
        DESCRIPTION
            "Write access is not required."

        GROUP   ipMRouteMIBHCInterfaceGroup
        DESCRIPTION
            "This group is mandatory only for those network interfaces
            for which the value of the corresponding instance of ifSpeed
            is greater than 20,000,000 bits/second."

    ::= { ipMRouteMIBCompliances 1 }


-- units of conformance






Expires January 1999                                           [Page 24]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


ipMRouteMIBBasicGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { ipMRouteEnable, ipMRouteUpstreamNeighbor,
              ipMRouteInIfIndex,
              ipMRouteUpTime, ipMRouteExpiryTime,
              ipMRoutePkts, ipMRouteDifferentInIfPackets,
              ipMRouteOctets,
              ipMRouteNextHopState,
              ipMRouteNextHopUpTime,
              ipMRouteNextHopExpiryTime,
              ipMRouteNextHopProtocol,
              ipMRouteNextHopPkts,
              ipMRouteInterfaceTtl,
              ipMRouteInterfaceProtocol, ipMRouteInterfaceRateLimit,
              ipMRouteInterfaceInMcastOctets,
              ipMRouteInterfaceOutMcastOctets,
              ipMRouteProtocol
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects to support basic management of IP
            Multicast routing."
    ::= { ipMRouteMIBGroups 1 }

ipMRouteMIBHopCountGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { ipMRouteNextHopClosestMemberHops }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects to support management of the use of
            hop counts in IP Multicast routing."
    ::= { ipMRouteMIBGroups 2 }

ipMRouteMIBBoundaryGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { ipMRouteBoundaryStatus, ipMRouteScopeName,
              ipMRouteScopeStatus }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects to support management of scoped
            multicast address boundaries."
    ::= { ipMRouteMIBGroups 3 }

ipMRouteMIBPktsOutGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { ipMRouteNextHopPkts }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects to support management of packet





Expires January 1999                                           [Page 25]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


            counters for each outgoing interface entry of a route."
    ::= { ipMRouteMIBGroups 4 }

ipMRouteMIBHCInterfaceGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { ipMRouteInterfaceHCInMcastOctets,
              ipMRouteInterfaceHCOutMcastOctets }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects providing information specific to
            high speed (greater than 20,000,000 bits/second) network
            interfaces."
    ::= { ipMRouteMIBGroups 5 }

ipMRouteMIBRouteGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { ipMRouteRtProto, ipMRouteRtAddress,
              ipMRouteRtMask, ipMRouteRtType }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects providing information on the
            relationship between multicast routing information, and the
            IP Forwarding Table."
    ::= { ipMRouteMIBGroups 6 }

END


























Expires January 1999                                           [Page 26]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


6.  Security Considerations

This MIB contains readable objects whose values provide information
related to multicast routing, including information on what machines are
sending to which groups.  There are also a number of objects that have a
MAX-ACCESS clause of read-write and/or read-create, such as those which
allow an administrator to configure multicast boundaries.

While unauthorized access to the readable objects is relatively
innocuous, unauthorized access to the write-able objects could cause a
denial of service, or could cause wider distribution of packets intended
only for local distribution.  Hence, the support for SET operations in a
non-secure environment without proper protection can have a negative
effect on network operations.

SNMPv1 by itself is such an insecure environment.  Even if the network
itself is secure (for example by using IPSec), even then, there is no
control as to who on the secure network is allowed to access and SET
(change/create/delete) the objects in this MIB.

It is recommended that the implementers consider the security features
as provided by the SNMPv3 framework.  Specifically, the use of the
User-based Security Model RFC 2274 [12] and the View-based Access
Control Model RFC 2275 [15] is recommended.

It is then a customer/user responsibility to ensure that the SNMP entity
giving access to this MIB, is properly configured to give access to
those objects only to those principals (users) that have legitimate
rights to access them.



7.  Acknowledgements

This MIB module was updated based on feedback from the IETF's Inter-
Domain Multicast Routing (IDMR) Working Group.



8.  Authors' Address

     Keith McCloghrie
     cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive
     San Jose, CA  95134-1706





Expires January 1999                                           [Page 27]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


     Phone: +1 408 526 5260
     EMail: kzm@cisco.com

     Dino Farinacci
     cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive
     San Jose, CA  95134-1706
     Phone: +1 408 526 4696
     EMail: dino@cisco.com

     Dave Thaler
     Microsoft Corporation
     One Microsoft Way
     Redmond, WA  48105-6399
     Phone: +1 425 703 8835
     EMail: dthaler@microsoft.com



9.  References

[1]  Harrington, D., Presuhn, R., and B. Wijnen, "An Architecture for
     Describing SNMP Management Frameworks", RFC 2271, Cabletron
     Systems, Inc., BMC Software, Inc., IBM T. J. Watson Research,
     January 1998.

[2]  Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Structure and Identification of
     Management Information for TCP/IP-based Internets", RFC 1155,
     Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems, May 1990.

[3]  Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Concise MIB Definitions", RFC 1212,
     Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems, March 1991.

[4]  M. Rose, "A Convention for Defining Traps for use with the SNMP",
     RFC 1215, Performance Systems International, March 1991.

[5]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Structure
     of Management Information for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902, SNMP Research,Inc., Cisco
     Systems, Inc., Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network
     Services, January 1996.

[6]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Textual
     Conventions for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1903, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,





Expires January 1999                                           [Page 28]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[7]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Conformance
     Statements for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1904, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[8]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin, "Simple Network
     Management Protocol", RFC 1157, SNMP Research, Performance Systems
     International, Performance Systems International, MIT Laboratory
     for Computer Science, May 1990.

[9]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser,
     "Introduction to Community-based SNMPv2", RFC 1901, SNMP Research,
     Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.,
     International Network Services, January 1996.

[10] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Transport
     Mappings for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1906, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[11] Case, J., Harrington D., Presuhn R., and B. Wijnen, "Message
     Processing and Dispatching for the Simple Network Management
     Protocol (SNMP)", RFC 2272, SNMP Research, Inc., Cabletron Systems,
     Inc., BMC Software, Inc., IBM T. J. Watson Research, January 1998.

[12] Blumenthal, U., and B. Wijnen, "User-based Security Model (USM) for
     version 3 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv3)", RFC
     2274, IBM T. J. Watson Research, January 1998.

[13] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Protocol
     Operations for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[14] Levi, D., Meyer, P., and B. Stewart, "MPv3 Applications", RFC 2273,
     SNMP Research, Inc., Secure Computing Corporation, Cisco Systems,
     January 1998.







Expires January 1999                                           [Page 29]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


[15] Wijnen, B., Presuhn, R., and K. McCloghrie, "View-based Access
     Control Model (VACM) for the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMP)", RFC 2275, IBM T. J. Watson Research, BMC Software, Inc.,
     Cisco Systems, Inc., January 1998.

[16] Deering, S., "Multicast Routing in a Datagram Internetwork", PhD
     thesis, Electrical Engineering Dept., Stanford University, December
     1991.

[17] Waitzman, D., Partridge, C., and S.E. Deering, "Distance Vector
     Multicast Routing Protocol", RFC 1075, November 1988.

[18] Estrin, D., Farinacci, D., Helmy, A., Thaler, D., Deering, S.,
     Handley, M., Jacobson, V., Liu, C., Sharma, P., and L. Wei,
     "Protocol Independent Multicast-Sparse Mode (PIM-SM): Protocol
     Specification", RFC 2362, June 1998.

[19] Deering, S., Estrin, D., Farinacci, D., Jacobson, V., Helmy, A.,
     and L. Wei, "Protocol Independent Multicast Version 2, Dense Mode
     Specification".  May 1997.

[20] Moy, J., "Multicast Extensions to OSPF", RFC 1584, March 1994.

[21] Ballardie, A. J., "Core Based Trees (CBT version 2) Multicast
     Routing", RFC 2189, September 1997.

[22] Meyer, D., "Administratively Scoped IP Multicast", RFC 2365, July
     1998.






















Expires January 1999                                           [Page 30]





Draft                   IP Multicast Routing MIB               July 1998


10.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1998).  All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implmentation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS
IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK
FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT
INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."


Table of Contents


1 Introduction ....................................................    1
2 Revision History ................................................    2
3 The SNMP Management Framework ...................................    3
3.1 Object Definitions ............................................    4
4 Overview ........................................................    5
5 Definitions .....................................................    6
6 Security Considerations .........................................   27
7 Acknowledgements ................................................   27
8 Authors' Address ................................................   27
9 References ......................................................   28
10 Full Copyright Statement .......................................   31








Expires January 1999                                           [Page 31]

