Internet Draft            ETS Gap Analysis         December 19th, 2003


Internet Engineering Task Force                           Janet P. Gunn
Internet Draft                                            Dennis Berg
Expiration: June 19 2004                                  CSC
File: draft-gunn-ieprep-ip-telephony-gap-00.txt           Pat McGregor
                                                          Nyquetek Inc.




                          Gap Analysis for Meeting
            Emergency Telecommunications Service (ETS) Requirements
              with DIFFSERV and MPLS in a Single IP Telephony Domain

 

                               December 19, 2003 


   
Status of this Memo 
     
This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all 
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026. 
    
Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task 
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups. Note that other groups 
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts. 
    
Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months 
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any 
time. It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material 
or to cite them other than as "work in progress." 
    
The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at 
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt 
    
The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at 
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html. 


Abstract 

This document presents a gap analysis for meeting ETS requirements 
using DIFFSERV and MPLS with reference to one particular network 
scenario:  implementing Internet Telecommunications Disaster Recovery 
(ETS) service in the context of IP Telephony in a private IP network 
designed, engineered and managed with telephony (using DIFFSERV and 
MPLS) as the dominant application.





Gunn                                                            Page 1
Internet Draft            ETS Gap Analysis         December 19th, 2003


Table of Contents 
     
Abstract   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  1
Table of Contents    . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
1.0   Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2
2.0   Reference Network Topology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
3.0   User Requirements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
4.0   Constraining Requirements. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
5.0   DIFFSERV Gap Identification. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
6.0   MPLS Gap Identification. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
7.0   Security Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
8.0   IANA Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
9.0   Conclusion. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  . . . . . .  7
10.0  Acknowledgements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
11.0  References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
12.0  Author Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
13.0  Acronyms . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9


1.0 Introduction

This document presents a gap analysis for meeting ETS requirements 
using DIFFSERV and MPLS with reference to one particular network 
scenario:  implementing Internet Telecommunications Disaster Recovery 
(also known as Emergency Telecommunications Service, or ETS) service in 
the context of IP Telephony in a private IP network designed, 
engineered and managed with  telephony (using DIFFSERV [DIFFSERV]and 
MPLS[MPLS]) as the dominant application.  In this particular network 
scenario, the IP network serves only as a transit network, with all ETS 
calls originating and terminating in the Circuit Switched Network  
(CSN).  This topology is referred to as "IP Bridging", or "IP in the 
Middle" [IEPREP Term].

This document has the following sections:

1) Introduction
2) Reference Network Topology 
3) User Requirements
4) Constraining Requirements
5) DIFFSERV Gap Identification
6) MPLS Gap Identification
7) Security Considerations 
8) IANA Considerations  
9) Conclusion
10)Acknowledgements 
11)References 
12)Author Information

Comments should be sent to Janet Gunn at jgunn6@csc.com




Gunn                                                            Page 2
Internet Draft            ETS Gap Analysis         December 19th, 2003


 
2.0 Reference Network Topology 

The IP Bridging Topology is defined in [IEPREP Term] and is sometimes 
known as "IP in the Middle" of two CSNs.  In this topology, a CSN 
phone of any type initiates (dials) a call to another CSN phone with 
an IP core between the two CSNs.  For purposes of this document, the IP 
in the middle is a single domain, telephony-enabled, IP network (using 
DIFFSERV and MPLS) without issues of technological continuity and 
interfacing that arise with multiple domains.

This topology should simplistically look like this:
                 

----------------->+<--------IP-Based Telephony Network------>+<--------
-----  
 
--------------+    +----+                        +----+    +----------
              |    |    |                        |    |    |
      STP.....|....|.SG |                        | SG.|....|....STP
       :      |    |  : |                        |  : |    |     :
       :      |    |  : |    +--------------+    |  : |    |     :
       :      |    | MGC|    |              |    | MGC|    |     :
       :      |    |  : |    |              |    |  : |    |     :
       :      |    |  : |    |              |    |  : |    |     :
      AT   ------->| MG |------LSR -----LSR----->| MG |--------> AT
              |    |    |    |              |    |    |    |
              |    +----+    |              |    +----+    |
   -----------+              +--------------+              +-----------
 
 
                      Exploded "IP Bridging" Topology
 
This diagram is intended to portray a possible CSN carrier that has 
introduced an IP transport island into his network, or, perhaps more 
generally, a CSN Local Exchange Carrier (LEC) transiting an IP 
Interexchange Carrier to another CSN LEC.  Note that although the 
topology shows the SG connected directly to the MGC and the MGC 
connected directly to the MG, these connections should be viewed as 
logical connections, physically formed by LSPs through the LSRs, with 
the SG, MGC, and MG all actually connected to the LSRs.
 
The baseline telephony application design for this topology is assumed 
to be bearer traffic from AT to MG and MG to AT via conventional TDM 
trunks and from MG to LSR to LSR to MG via E-LSPs providing EF PHB 
supporting RTP media exchange between the MGs.

The reference topology is assumed implemented for voice traffic using 
DIFFSERV 
and MPLS.



Gunn                                                            Page 3
Internet Draft            ETS Gap Analysis         December 19th, 2003


3.0 User Requirements

Requirements for generic ETS are presented in [IEPREP Rqmts] and 
augmented with telephony-specific requirements in [IEPREP IP Tel 
Rqmts].  Requirements for specific providers will be specified in 
individual SLAs. ETS SLAs require performance to the extent possible, 
even under circumstances of extraordinary demand and/or outages such as 
caused by Acts of God and War for which non-ETS SLAs generally take 
exception.

Some providers of the single-domain telephony service addressed in this 
paper may be able to meet all SLA performance metrics for telephony ETS 
calls (e.g., low probability of blocking and toll quality voice) 
without a distinct service for ETS traffic.  An example would be a 
single-domain provider whose sum of domain access capacities is less 
than the capacity of every possible path over which concurrent traffic 
might be routed. 

Other providers may be in a situation where their network can become 
congested (and SLA ETS performance compromised), either as a result of 
extraordinary access demand, combined with statistically rare 
burstiness, exceeding transport capacity, or as a result of transport 
capacity being reduced by outages, or by a combination of extraordinary 
demand and outages. For these providers to meet SLA ETS performance 
objectives during  severe network stress, mechanisms must be provided 
by which ETS traffic can be recognized and afforded some form of 
treatment that enables its performance objectives to be met.  For 
convenience, we refer this as an SLA requirement to ensure ETS.

By addressing the signaling requirements at the application layer, ETS 
traffic can be recognized at the application layer and resources under 
application control can be managed to ensure their role in ETS, i.e., a 
low probability of blocking may be achieved at the application layer by 
Call Access Control.  Although this is necessary, it is not sufficient 
if the lower layers do not have means of supporting such allocation on 
a sustained (i.e. duration of the call) basis.  In this context, 
"allocation" may be viewed as any techniques that ensure ETS traffic 
receives the resources necessary to achieve its SLA performance 
specifications.     

The gap analysis presented here addresses the need for certain single-
domain telephony bridging providers to be able to support ETS SLAs to 
provide:  

High Probability Toll-Quality Voice - ETS calls must be given adequate 
resources through the network to ensure a high probability that their 
packets suffer loss, delay, and jitter consistent with achieving toll-
quality voice even when network congestion and / or damage are severe.





Gunn                                                            Page 4
Internet Draft            ETS Gap Analysis         December 19th, 2003



It is recognized that the SLA requirements must be subject to physical 
connectivity survival and capacity limitations, and that ETS traffic 
may be limited by the provider in terms of its absolute and/or relative 
utilization of the total available capacity. 
 
Sessions identified as ETS could be processed as normal traffic along 
with all non-emergency traffic when sufficient network bandwidth and 
resources are available.

4.0 Constraining Requirements

Besides the relevant requirements from IEPREP documents, and the user 
requirements above, the following general requirements are proposed to 
bear upon the gap analysis:

REQ-1) Whether or not ETS calls are being served, the impact on non-ETS 
calls SHOULD be minimized, consistent with providing the ETS service.  

REQ-2) In some networks, depending on the topology and overall 
capacity, the service MAY impose a limit on the resources that can be 
used by ETS calls when there are non-ETS calls competing for those 
resources. 

REQ-3) Whether or not ETS calls are being served, the impact of the ETS 
service on network management and administration SHOULD be minimized, 
consistent with providing the ETS service.  

REQ-4) The additional development (by vendors) to support the ETS 
service SHOULD be minimized, consistent with providing the ETS service.  

As a consequence of REQ-4, identifying new labels and parameter values 
for existing protocols is preferable to inventing new protocols or 
completely new parameters, where possible.  

5.0  DIFFSERV Gap Identification

For the reference network and service scenario, the need in DIFFSERV is 
for a way to ensure service to ETS traffic during conditions of network 
traffic saturation.  [IEPREP Frame] has suggested the approach of using 
AF instead of EF for ETS traffic to reduce the dropping probability.  
This approach, however, does not provide bounds on delay and jitter, so 
it does not appear to be acceptable in meeting the requirement for 
toll-quality voice.   

[IEPREP Frame] has alternatively suggested employing an additional Per 
Hop Behavior (PHB) for ETS traffic, without specifying the behavior. 
Using a second instance of EF, with a strict priority queue, might 
reduce the dropping probability, and reduce the delay and jitter, for 
ETS traffic.  This approach, however appears to violate REQ-1 to 



Gunn                                                            Page 5
Internet Draft            ETS Gap Analysis         December 19th, 2003



minimize the impact on non-ETS VoIP traffic.  As described in the 
Appendix to RFC 3246 [DIFFSERV EF], the bounds on delay for the (lower 
priority) non-ETS EF traffic would become large, or even unbounded, 
thereby undermining QoS for the non-ETS EF traffic. 

The Appendix to RFC 3246 [DIFFSERV EF] points out that multiple 
instances of EF with a WFQ-like scheduler could overcome the 
limitations of a strict priority queue by delivering delay bounds 
similar to a single instance of EF. Using a second instance of EF, 
then, with some form of Fair Weighted Queuing that recognizes ETS 
traffic as distinct, seems to be a viable approach.  However, 
employing a second instance of EF would require two distinct EF 
DIFFSERV codepoints.

Based upon this analysis there appears to be a gap in DIFFSERV in 
respect to providing the ETS service in the reference scenario.

6.0 MPLS Gap Identification

For the reference network and service scenario, the need in MPLS [MPLS] 
is for a way to support DIFFSEV [MPLS DIFF] to ensure ETS telephony.  
For MPLS support of DIFSERV in the reference network and service, two 
basic approaches appear to be:

     1) Define a separate MPLS codepoint to correlate with a 
        ETS DIFFSERV codepoint
     2) Implement a separate set of E-LSPs for the ETS traffic uniquely 
        distinguished in DIFFSERV.

 It is recognized that MPLS LSPs [MPLS] have very limited resources for 
traffic differentiation, and the first (1) approach's allocating a 
limited traffic differentiation resources for the nominally rare, but 
occasionally heavy ETS traffic may be viewed as wasteful.  However, the 
alternative approach (2) of creating a separate ETS topology of LSPs 
presents significant difficulties because of the ubiquitous requirement 
for ETS support coupled with its rare use, leading to significant 
maintenance and operating challenges. Thus approach  (2) seems to 
contravene REQ-3, which cautions that the impact of ETS on network 
management and administration should be minimized.  Complying with REQ-
3 implies that the ETS service should not be dependant on the 
maintenance and management of a distinct "shadow network" or VPN.  

Both candidate approaches have advantages and disadvantages. Approach 
(1) satisfies REQ-3, but exposes a gap in that there is no MPLS 
codepoint identified for the additional ETS DIFFSERV codepoint 
distinguishing ETS packets within an MPLS path also supporting non-ETS 
packets.





Gunn                                                            Page 6
Internet Draft            ETS Gap Analysis         December 19th, 2003



7.0   Security Considerations 
 
There are two primary concerns:

-    Authorization/authentication of voice traffic which is entitled to
     ETS-treatment.  In the reference IP Bridging topology, this 
     authentication and authorization takes place in the CSN.  The 
     security of this authorization and authentication in the IP 
     network is a general IP Telephony security issue, and outside the 
     scope of his paper. 
-    Potential for unauthorized use of ETS, and for DoS or DDoS 
     attacks.  This document recognizes these issues, but does not 
     address them because they are out of scope for a gap analysis.

8.0   IANA Considerations  

There are no IANA considerations addressed in this document.  The 
alleviation of  some of the gaps identified may involve IANA 
considerations.

9.0   Conclusion

From the perspective of the reference network topology and service 
there appear to be gaps in both DIFFSERV and MPLS.  In their current 
form they cannot provide an increased probability that ETS calls will 
receive a satisfactory (i.e., non-degraded) quality of service in a 
stressed network environment while meeting REQ-1, REQ-2, REQ-3 and 
REQ-4.

10.0  Acknowledgements 

The authors would like to acknowledge the helpful comments, opinions, 
and clarifications of Richard Kaczmarek, as well as those comments 
received from the IEPREP mailing list.

11.0  References 

Normative

[DIFFSERV]  Nichols, K., Blake, S., Baker, F., Black, D., "Definition 
of the Differentiated Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6 
Headers", RFC 2474, December 1998.

[DIFFSERV EF] Davie, B., Charny, A.,  Bennett, J.C.R., K. Benson, Le 
Boudec, J.Y., Courtney, W., Davari, S., Firoiu, V., Stiliadis, D., "An 
Expedited Forwarding PHB (Per-Hop Behavior)" RFC 3246, March 2002

[IEPREP Term]    Polk, J., "Internet Emergency Preparedness (IEPREP) 
Telephony Topology Terminology", RFC 3523, April 2003.



Gunn                                                            Page 7
Internet Draft            ETS Gap Analysis         December 19th, 2003



[MPLS] Rosen, E., Viswanathan, A., Callon, R., "Multiprotocol Label 
Switching Architecture", RFC 3031, January 2001.           
 
[MPLS DIFF] Le Faucheur, F., Wu, L., Davie, B., Davari, S., Vaananen, 
P., Krishnan, R., Cheval, P., Heinanen, J., "Multi-Protocol Label 
Switching (MPLS) Support of Differentiated Services", RFC 3270, May 
2002.

Non-Normative

[IEPREP Frame] Carlberg, K., Brown, I., Beard, C., "Framework for 
Supporting ETS in IP Telephony",draft-ietf-ieprep-framework-07.txt , Internet-Draft, 
December, 2003 .

[IEPREP Rqmts] Carlberg, K., Atkinson, R., "General Requirements for 
Emergency Telecommunications Service", draft-ietf-ieprep-ets-general-04.txt, Internet-
Draft, August, 2003.
 
[IEPREP IP Tel Rqmts] Carlberg, K., Atkinson, R., "IP Telephony 
Requirements for Emergency Telecommunications Service", draft-ietf-ieprep-ets-telephony-07.txt, Internet Draft, November, 2003.

12.0  Author Information 

   Pat McGregor
   Nyquetek Inc
   8397 Piping Rock 
   Millersville, MD  21108 U.S.A.
   Email: pat_mcgregor@msn.com
   Phone:  410-703-4486
  
   Dennis Berg
   CSC
   15000 Conference Center Dr
   Chantilly, VA
   Email: Dberg3@CSC.com
   Phone: 703-818-4608
 
   Janet Gunn
   CSC
   15000 Conference Center Dr
   Chantilly, VA
   Email: JGunn6@CSC.com
   Phone: 703-818-4725








Gunn                                                            Page 8
Internet Draft            ETS Gap Analysis         December 19th, 2003



13.0  Acronyms

The following acronyms are exploded for clarity:
 
      AT = Access Tandem
      
      CSN = Circuit Switched Network
 
      EF = Expedited Forwarding
 
      E-LSP = EXP-inferred-PSC LSPs
 
      ETS = Emergency Telecommunications Service

      EXP = field in MPLS label
 
      LSP = Label Switched Path
 
      LSR = Label Switching Router
 
      MG = Media Gateway
 
      MGC = Media Gateway Controller
 
      MPLS = Multi-Protocol Label Switching
 
      PHB = Per Hop Behavior
 
      PSC = PHB Scheduling Class
 
      SG = Signaling Gateway
 
      STP = Signal Transfer Point
 
      TDM = Time Division Multiplexing

"Copyright (C) The Internet Society (December 19, 2003). All Rights 
Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to 
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or 
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and 
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind, 
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are 
included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this 
document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the 
copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other 
Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of developing 
Internet standards in which case the procedures for copyrights defined 
in the Internet Standards process must be followed, or as required to 
translate it into languages other than English.

Gunn                                                            Page 9
Internet Draft            ETS Gap Analysis         December 19th, 2003



The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be 
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an 
"AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING 
TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT 
NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL 
NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR 
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."


The Expiration date for this Internet Draft is:

April 19, 2004






































Gunn                                                            Page 10



