CCAMP Working Group                                       Zafar Ali
Internet Draft                                   Antonello Bonfanti
Updates: 7139                                          Matt Hartley
Intended status: Informational                        Cisco Systems
                                                           F. Zhang
                                                Huawei Technologies
Expires: August 5, 2016                            February 5, 2016


     Resource ReserVation Protocol-Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE)
          Extension for Additional Signal Types in G.709 OTN
        draft-ietf-ccamp-additional-signal-type-g709v3-03.txt


Status of this Memo

This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
Task Force (IETF). Note that other groups may also distribute
working documents as Internet-Drafts. The list of current Internet-
Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
documents at any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts
as reference material or to cite them other than as "work in
progress."

This Internet-Draft will expire on August 5, 2016.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2016 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
document authors. All rights reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
(http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
publication of this document. Please review these documents
carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with
respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this
document must include Simplified BSD License text as described in
Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without
warranty as described in the Simplified BSD License.

This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF
Contributions published or made publicly available before November



Expires August 2016                                    [Page 1]

Internet-Draft draft-ietf-ccamp-additional-signal-type-g709v3-
03.txt

10, 2008.  The person(s) controlling the copyright in some of this
material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow
modifications of such material outside the IETF Standards Process.
Without obtaining an adequate license from the person(s)
controlling the copyright in such materials, this document may not
be modified outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative
works of it may not be created outside the IETF Standards Process,
except to format it for publication as an RFC or to translate it
into languages other than English.

Abstract

RFC 4328 and RFC 7139 provide Resource ReserVation Protocol-Traffic
Engineering (RSVP-TE) signaling extensions to control the full set
of Optical Transport Network (OTN) features. However, these
specifications do not cover the additional Optical channel Data
Unit (ODU) containers defined in G.Sup43 (ODU1e, ODU3e1 and
ODU3e2). This document updates RFC 7139 to define new signal types
for these additional containers.

Table of Contents

   1. Introduction...................................................2
   2. RSVP-TE extension for Additional Signal Types..................2
   3. Security Considerations........................................3
   4. IANA Considerations............................................3
   5. Acknowledgments................................................3
   6. References.....................................................3
     6.1. Normative References.......................................3
     6.2. Informative References.....................................4

1. Introduction

   [RFC7139] updates the Optical channel Data Unit (ODU)-related
   portions of [RFC4328] to provide Resource ReserVation Protocol-
   Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE) extensions to support control for
   [G.709-v3] in the OTN-TDM SENDER_TSPEC and OTN-TDM FLOWSPEC
   objects. However, it does not specify signal types for the
   containers defined in [G.Sup43] (ODU1e, ODU3e1, and ODU3e2).
   This document provides RSVP-TE signaling extensions to support
   these additional signal types.

2. RSVP-TE extension for Additional Signal Types

   [RFC7139] defines the format of Traffic Parameters in OTN-TDM
   SENDER_TSPEC and OTN-TDM FLOWSPEC objects. These traffic
   parameters have a signal type field. This document defines the
   signal type for ODU1e, ODU3e1 and ODU3e2 as defined in the IANA
   considerations section. They are allocated from the
   Specification Required policy added to the subregistry by
   [draft-subreg].
                     Expires March 2016               [Page 2]

Internet-Draft draft-ietf-ccamp-additional-signal-type-g709v3-
03.txt


3. Security Considerations

   This document does not introduce any additional security issues
   above those identified in [RFC7139].

4. IANA Considerations

   IANA maintains a registry called "Generalized Multi-Protocol
   Label Switching (GMPLS) Signaling Parameters" with a subregistry
   called "OTN Signal Type". IANA is requested to make three
   further allocations from this registry under the Specification
   Required policy for ODU1e, ODU3e1 and ODU3e2 as follows:

   Value                       Type
   -----                       ----
   TBD (IANA is requested      ODU1e  (10Gbps Ethernet [G.Sup43])
     to assign the value 23)
   TBD (IANA is requested      ODU3e1 (40Gbps Ethernet [G.Sup43])
     to assign the value 26)
   TBD (IANA is requested      ODU3e2 (40Gbps Ethernet [G.Sup43])
     to assign the value 27)


   These signaled types are carried in Traffic Parameters in OTN-
   TDM SENDER_TSPEC and OTN-TDM FLOWSPEC objects [RFC7139].

5. Acknowledgments

   The authors would like to thank Dieter Beller, Lou Berger,
   Deborah Brungard, Daniele Ceccarelli, Adrian Farrel and Sudip
   Shukla for comments.

6. References


6.1. Normative References

    [RFC4328] Papadimitriou, D., Ed., "Generalized Multi-Protocol
             Label Switching (GMPLS) Signaling Extensions for G.709
             Optical Transport Networks Control", RFC 4328, January
             2006.

   [RFC7139] F. Zhang, Ed., G. Zhang, S. Belotti, D. Ceccarelli,
             and K. Pithewan, "GMPLS Signaling Extensions for
             Control of Evolving G.709 Optical Transport Networks",
             RFC 7139, March 2014.



                     Expires March 2016               [Page 3]

Internet-Draft draft-ietf-ccamp-additional-signal-type-g709v3-
03.txt

   [draft-subreg] Z. Ali, A. Bonfanti, M. Hartley, F. Zhang, "IANA
             Allocation Procedures for OTN Signal Type Subregistry
             of the GMPLS Signaling Parameters Registry", draft-
             ietf-ccamp-otn-signal-type-subregistry, work in
             progress.

6.2. Informative References

   [G.709-v3] ITU-T, "Interface for the Optical Transport Network
             (OTN)", G.709/Y.1331 Recommendation, February, 2012.

   [G.Sup43] ITU-T, "Transport of IEEE 10GBASE-R in optical
             transport networks (OTN)", February, 2011.

Authors' Addresses


   Zafar Ali
   Cisco Systems
   Email: zali@cisco.com

   Antonello Bonfanti
   Cisco Systems
   abonfant@cisco.com

   Matt Hartley
   Cisco Systems
   mhartley@cisco.com

   Fatai Zhang
   Huawei Technologies
   Email: zhangfatai@huawei.com



















                     Expires March 2016               [Page 4] 
