MPLS Working Group                                       Loa Andersson
Internet-Draft                                               Utfors AB
Informational                                           George Swallow
Expiration Date: March 2003                              Cisco Systems

                                                    09 September, 2002

   The MPLS Working Group decision on MPLS signaling protocols
            <draft-andersson-mpls-sig-decision-00.txt>


Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026 [RFC2026].

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups. Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time. It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

For potential updates to the above required-text see:
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-guidelines.txt

Abstract

This document is the documentation of the decision taken by the IETF to
focus the efforts on a signalling protocol for traffic engineering
applications on "RSVP-TE: Extensions to RSVP for LSP Tunnels" (RFC3209),
and consequently discontinue the efforts on "Constraint-Based LSP Setup
using LDP" (RFC3212).

Conventions used in this document

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in RFC-2119 [RFC2119].



INTERNET-DRAFT        draft-andersson-mpls-sig-decision-01.txt 09.09.02



Andersson                   Expires March 2003                  [Page 2]



Contents

1. Introduction ..................................................... 2
   1.1 Objectives of document ....................................... 2
   1.2 Nomenclature ................................................. 2

2. Background ....................................................... 3

3. CCAMP implementation study ....................................... 3

4. MPLS Working Group discussion .................................... 4
   4.1 Phase 1 ...................................................... 4
   4.2 IETF process ................................................. 4
   4.3 Relationship to other standards organizations ................ 5
   4.4 Phase 2 ...................................................... 5

5. MPLS Working Group consensus ..................................... 6

6. Recommendation to the IESG ....................................... 6

7. Security considerations .......................................... 7

8. IANA considerations .............................................. 7

9. References ....................................................... 7
   9.1 Normative .................................................... 7
   9.2 Non-normative ................................................ 8



1. Introduction

1.1 Objectives of document

This document documents the MPLS working group consensus on not
undertaking any further work on the RFC 3212, e.g. there is no plans to
progress RFC-3212 beyond proposed standard. No other actions are taken
relative the document status of RFC3212 [RFC3212] or RFCs that specifies
extensions to RFC3212.

1.2 Nomenclature

CR-LDP related working group drafts




INTERNET-DRAFT      draft-andersson-mpls-sig-decision-00.txt        09.09.02



Andersson                 Expires March 2003                  [Page 3]

   The CR-LDP related drafts are:
      draft-ietf-mpls-lsp-query-nn.txt
      draft-ietf-mpls-te-feed-nn.txt
      draft-ietf-mpls-crldp-unnum-nn.txt
      draft-ietf-mpls-ldp-ft-nn.txt
      draft-ietf-mpls-generalized-cr-ldp-nn.txt
      draft-ietf-ccamp-gmpls-sonet-sdh-nn.txt
      draft-ietf-ccamp-gmpls-sonet-sdh-extensions-nn.txt

CR-LDP related RFCs

    The CR-LDP related RFCs are:
      RFC3212, "Constraint-Based LSP Setup using LDP"
      RFC3213, "Applicability Statement for CR-LDP"
      RFC3214, "LSP Modification Using CR-LDP"


2. Background

Very early (1997) in the MPLS standardization it was clear that a
protocol would be needed that would enable providers to setup LSPs that
took other information (e.g. various QoS parameters) as input for
establishing LSPs. Development of this type of signalling protocol took
two different tracks:

  - extensions to RSVP for setting up MPLS tunnels [RSVP-TE]

  - extensions to LDP for setting constraint based LSPs [CR-LDP]

 The motivation for the choice of protocol was in both cases
 straightforward. Extending RSVP-TE to do in an MPLS environment what it
 already was doing (handling QoS information and reserving resources) in
 an IP environment is comprehensible; you only have to add the label
 distribution capability. Extending a native MPLS protocol like LDP,
 which was designed to do label distribution, to handle some extra TLVs
 with QoS information is also not revolutionary.

 The MPLS group never reached a consensus on which way to go. Both
 protocols were progressed to draft standard.


3. CCAMP implementation study

An implementation survey for signaling protocols within the GMPLS area
were published in June 2002 [GMPLS]. The survey did show that there are
quite a number of implementations; the survey includes responses from 22
different implementers. The survey also did show that of the 22



INTERNET-DRAFT    draft-andersson-mpls-sig-decision-00.txt         09.09.02



Andersson                   Expires March 2003                  [Page 4]

responders 21 had implemented the GMPLS signalling based on [RSVP-TE],
while only 3 had implemented based on [CR-LDP].


4. MPLS Working Group discussion

4.1 Phase 1

The report prompted questions if it was motivated to have two different
protocols for the same things. The discussion was brought to the MPLS
Working Group at the meeting in Yokohama July 2002. After discussion at
the meeting it was decided to "bring this to the list" and also invite
comments from the other Sub-IP Area Working Groups.

The question sent to the list was formulated as:

"As there are issues with having two similar standards (potentially
diverging), and it generates duplicate work in several IETF working
groups, the question was asked whether we should make CR-LDP
informational (which still make it available and possible to work with)
and progress only RSVP-TE on the standards track."

The response to this was largely positive, but some problems were
immediately pointed out:

  - there are non-IETF standards which reference RFC3212. Taking CR-LDP
     off the standards track would cause un-necessary problems for those
     organisations and should be done only after co-ordinating with
     those organizations

  - there is, e.g. in RFC2026 [RFC2026], no documented process
     according to which a document on the standards track may be move to
     a status that is non-standards track

Each of these arguments is by themselves strong and would have led to
some reformulation of the proposal to move CR-LDP to informational.
Moreover, in combination it was clear that the original proposal was not
viable.

On the other hand the support for actually keeping CR-LDP as an IETF
live alternative to RSVP-TE is extremely small.

4.2 IETF process

The current IETF process for managing changes in RFC status does not
include any information on how to move an existing standard track RFC to
a non-standard track status. It has been show that such actions have



INTERNET-DRAFT      draft-andersson-mpls-sig-decision-00.txt        09.09.02



Andersson                 Expires March 2003                  [Page 5]

been previously taken e.g. RFCs 2673 and 2874 were moved from Proposed
Standard to Experimental. Though the cases are not exactly parallel to
the MPLS signalling case it shows that the IESG are prepared to take
such decisions given that the arguments are sufficiently strong.

4.3 Relationship to other standards organizations

The relationship with other standard organizations is a corner stone in
the IETF work. We are dependent on their work and they need us; each has
their own area of expertise. It is therefore necessary that both sides
handle their standards documentation in such a way that no unnecessary
updates or revisions are introduced simply by sloppy handling of
documents.

Consequently we need to keep CR-LDP referenceable, i.e. on the standards
track, for the foreseeable future. The implication of this is not that
we need to progress it further, or need to undertake further work in the
area. One implication however is that standards organizations which
reference the document, need to be notified of our decision so that they
(at their own leisure) can change their references to more appropriate
documents. It is also expected that they notify us when they no longer
have normative references to CR-LDP.

4.4 Phase 2

Based on the feed back from this first discussion the question to the
working group were reformulated as:

"Should the MPLS WG focus its efforts on a signaling protocol
for traffic engineering applications on RSVP-TE, and hence the WG effort
with CR-LDP be discontinued? This would not involve any change in
document status for CR-LDP, nor would it hinder continued
individual contributions in the CR-LDP space. It would involve
a change in the MPLS WG charter to reflect this."

It was pointed out that "nor would it hinder continued individual
contributions" is too weak. We actually discourage, while it is not
prohibited, continued work in the CR-LDP area. That is the whole point
with taking this decision.

It was also pointed out that while it is quite acceptable to not accept
further working group documents, it would also be appropriate to take
the existing CR-LDP related working group documents through the process
to proposed standard or informational as intended. This is applicable to
the following documents, which might not in themselves be extensions to
CR-LDP, but in one way or another are deemed to be "equally applicable
to CR-LDP":



INTERNET-DRAFT    draft-andersson-mpls-sig-decision-00.txt        09.09.02



Andersson                  Expires March 2003                  [Page 6]


  -inMPLSWG
       -- draft-ietf-mpls-lsp-query-nn.txt
         draft-ietf-mpls-te-feed-nn.txt
         draft-ietf-mpls-crldp-unnum-nn.txt
         draft-ietf-mpls-ldp-ft-nn.txt

  - in CCAMP WG
       -- draft-ietf-mpls-generalized-cr-ldp-nn.txt
         draft-ietf-ccamp-gmpls-sonet-sdh-nn.txt
         draft-ietf-ccamp-gmpls-sonet-sdh-extensions-nn.txt

RFCs that are extensions to CR-LDP, i.e. RFCs 3213 and 3214 will remain
proposed standard documents.

After this a good consensus quickly formed along those lines. Close to
90% of the people participating discussion said that they support or at
least accept this outcome of the working group discussion.


5. MPLS Working Group consensus

In a message to the working group (date) the working groups chairs found
that a consensus has been reached on:

  - focus the Working Group efforts on RSVP-TE as the MPLS signalling
        protocol for traffic engineering applications .

  - discontinue the working group effort on CR-LDP.

  - cease accepting CR-LDP related drafts as working group documents.

  - progress the existing MPLS working group documents to proposed
        standard or informational RFCs as appropriate.

  - send information to relevant standard organizations explaining the
        decision and its impact.

  - leave CR-LDP and CR-LDP related documents as proposed standards.


6. Recommendation to the IESG

Based on the consensus in the MPLS working group we recommend the IESG
to:





INTERNET-DRAFT     draft-andersson-mpls-sig-decision-00.txt        09.09.02



Andersson                  Expires March 2003                 [Page 7]

  - confirm the MPLS Working Group decision to discontinue work on CR-
     LDP and focus on RSVP-TE as signaling protocol for traffic
     engineering applications for MPLS

  - refrain from entertaining work that intends to progress RFC-3212 or
     related RFCs beyond proposed standard

  - review the IETF process with respect to management of documents
     that needs to be moved from standards track to any other status

  - publish this document as Informational RFC


7. Security considerations

This document only discusses a refocusing of the MPLS Working Group work
and consequently brings no new security considerations.


8. IANA considerations

This document brings no IANA considerations.


9. References

9.1 Normative

[RFC2026]
Bradner, S. "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3", RFC 2026,
October 1996.

[RFC2119]
Bradner, S. "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
Levels", RFC 2119, March 1997.

[CR-LDP]
Jamoussi, B. et.al., "Constraint-Based LSP Setup using LDP" RFC3212,
January 2002.

[RSVP-TE]
Awduche, D. et.al., "RSVP-TE: Extensions to RSVP for LSP Tunnels",
RFC3209, December 2001.






INTERNET-DRAFT    draft-andersson-mpls-sig-decision-00.txt        09.09.02



Andersson                   Expires March 2003                  [Page 8]

9.2 Non-normative

[GMPLS]
Rekhther,Y and Berger,L, "Generalized MPLS Signaling - Implementation
Survey" http://www.ietf.org/IESG/Implementations/MPLS-SIGNALING-
Implementation.txt , June 2002.

Authors contacts:

Loa Andersson

Utfors AB
Box 525
SE-169 29 Solna
Sweden
email: loa.andersson@utfors.se

George Swallow
Cisco Systems, Inc.
250 Apollo Drive
Chelmsford, MA 01824
Voice: +1 978 244 8143
email: swallow@cisco.com
























INTERNET-DRAFT      draft-andersson-mpls-sig-decision-00.txt        09.09.02



