



Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


                   The DiffServ Policy MIB
            draft-ietf-snmpconf-diffpolicy-02.txt
                   Document Revision:  1.4

                          June 2000


                      Harrie Hazewinkel
                             TBD
                harrie.hazewinkel@bigfoot.com

                        David Partain
                           Ericsson
                  David.Partain@ericsson.com






Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance
with all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet
Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working
groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
documents at any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-
Drafts as reference material or to cite them other than as
"work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed
at http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

Copyright Notice







SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000            [Page 1]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2000).  All Rights Reserved.

"Open Issues"

  * administrivia:  various template things need to be put in
    (the internet standard management framework, appropriate
    references, security boilerplate, verify intellectual
    property clause, the MUST, MAY, SHOULD stuff, etc.)  There
    are unresolved references.

  * Matt White comments:  "I think the "What does this MIB do?"
    aspect needs to be expanded upon and clarified.  Is it an
    abstraction of the DiffServ MIB?  Is it a DiffServ macro
    storage facility?  Is it a little of both?  DLP:  I've put in
    a place-holder, but the text is not written.

  * We need to include at least one example of usage.  This will
    be put in after Pittsburgh based upon the presentation that
    we do there.  After we're sure that our example reflects what
    is needed, we'll put it into this MIB.

  * to what degree do implementation-specific modules convey
    information about state or utilization and how do we get
    that information, and how is it shown in the policy system.

  * for each domain, we may need to understand capacity and
    utilization.  If so, we need to have appropriate MIB
    objects that allow you to get this.


1.  Abstract

The MIB Module described in this document provides a
conceptual layer between high-level "network-wide" policy
definitions that affect configuration of the differentiated
services (DiffServ) subsystem and the instance-specific
information that would include such details as the parameters
for all the queues associated with each interface in a system.
This essentially provides an interface for configuring
DiffServ at a conceptually higher layer than that of the
DiffServ Architecture MIB [DIFFSERVMIB].

This version of this memo is aligned with the DIFF-SERV-MIB
[DIFFSERVMIB] found in draft-ietf-diffserv-mib-03.txt.  This
MIB module will be aligned with that work as updates are made.





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000            [Page 2]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


2.  The SNMP Management Framework

The SNMP Management Framework presently consists of five major
components:

  o   An overall architecture, described in RFC 2571 [1].

  o   Mechanisms for describing and naming objects and events
      for the purpose of management. The first version of this
      Structure of Management Information (SMI) is called SMIv1
      and described in RFC 1155 [2], RFC 1212 [3] and RFC 1215
      [4]. The second version, called SMIv2, is described in
      RFC 2578 [5], RFC 2579 [6] and RFC 2580 [7].

  o   Message protocols for transferring management
      information. The first version of the SNMP message
      protocol is called SNMPv1 and described in RFC 1157
      [8]. A second version of the SNMP message protocol,
      which is not an Internet standards track protocol, is
      called SNMPv2c and described in RFC 1901 [9] and RFC
      1906 [10].  The third version of the message protocol is
      called SNMPv3 and described in RFC 1906 [10], RFC 2572
      [11] and RFC 2574 [12].

  o   Protocol operations for accessing management
      information. The first set of protocol operations and
      associated PDU formats is described in RFC 1157 [8]. A
      second set of protocol operations and associated PDU
      formats is described in RFC 1905 [13].

  o   A set of fundamental applications described in RFC 2573 [14]
      and the view-based access control mechanism described
      in RFC 2575 [15].

A more detailed introduction to the current SNMP Management
Framework can be found in RFC 2570 [16].

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store,
termed the Management Information Base or MIB. Objects in the
MIB are defined using the mechanisms defined in the SMI.

This memo specifies a MIB module that is compliant to the
SMIv2. A MIB conforming to the SMIv1 can be produced through
the appropriate translations. The resulting translated MIB
must be semantically equivalent, except where objects or





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000            [Page 3]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


events are omitted because no translation is possible (use of
Counter64). Some machine-readable information in SMIv2 will be
converted into textual descriptions in SMIv1 during the
translation process. However, this loss of machine readable
information is not considered to change the semantics of the
MIB.


3.  Introduction

This memo defines a MIB module which can be used to convey
information about desired network-wide DiffServ-based policy
behavior.  This module is designed to integrate with the
Policy-based Management MIB module [POLICYMIB] as well as the
DiffServ Architecture MIB module [DIFFSERVMIB] published by
the DiffServ working group.  Together these three documents
represent an instance of an integrated architecture for both
device-specific and network-wide policy management which is
fully integrated with the Internet Standard Management
Framework.

This is the first of what is expected to be a wide number of
other network-wide policy modules to be developed in the
future in a wide range of areas.

Within the DiffServ architecture a MIB module is already
defined [DIFFSERVMIB] that operates on a device level.  The
MIB module in this memo (the DIFFSERV-POLICY-MIB) creates a
coherent policy configuration management view (domain-
specific) as an umbrella over this mechanism-specific MIB.
That is, DIFFSERV-POLICY-MIB provides a conceptual API for
configuration of DiffServ parameters in a device at a higher
level than the DiffServ Architecture MIB [DIFFSERVMIB].


4.  Definitions

Terminology used in discussing policy-based configuration
management have been the source of much discussion and
confusion.  [PBCM] provides a discussion of the terms used in
discussing this topic.

Note that this is simply a template which needs to be altered
to fit into the documents better.






SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000            [Page 4]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


"Much of the information in this section is an adaptation and
expansion of a presentations given at the 47th IETF in during
the Policy Framework Working Group session. By adopting terms
used by the Policy Framework Working Group wherever feasible;
the SNMP Configuration Working Group hopes to reduce the
terminology confusion that has existed in this area. Work is
ongoing in the SNMP Configuration and Policy Framework groups
as well as others; so some change is inevitable. Here are
terms that are used to describe policy information at
different levels of abstraction moving from the most general
to the most specific.

  1. Domain Specific.

     A domain is a general area of technology such as service
     quality or security. Services, or service level agreements,
     may span several domains, each of them potentially
     including many policies. As a general rule, people will
     not discuss these domains in the abstract. They will most
     often be discussed with technology or application-specific
     examples. Examples of technical domains include IPSec
     and Differentiated Services. When expressed in terms
     specific to a particular domain, a policy is said to be
     at the Domain Specific level of detail.

     There is little in common between how one would configure
     differentiated services with how one would configure IPsec
     [IPSEC]. They may both be required for a particular service
     agreement however. For example, people who want to use
     a voice over IP application might also want to ensure a
     certain level of security for these communications.

  2. Mechanism Specific

     Mechanisms are technologies used within a particular
     domain. For example, in the differentiated services domain,
     RED or WRED (Weighted Random Early Detection) might be
     used as one of the mechanisms that devices employ to
     support differentiated services and the applications
     on which they rely. Policy descriptions that include
     the details associated with a particular mechanism,
     are said to be mechanism specific.

  3. Implementation Specific






SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000            [Page 5]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


     Implementation specific details are those parameters
     that a particular vendor might use in an implementation
     that augment a standard set of mechanism-specific
     parameters. Vendors often add special capabilities to
     basic mechanisms as a way of meeting special customer
     requirements or differentiating themselves from their
     competitors. These special capabilities are often a result
     of the implementation approach that a vendor has used for
     the product, thus the term, Implementation Specific. For
     example, if a router vendor implemented a particular
     routing protocol, they would have the mechanism specific
     parameters that control the behavior of that software. The
     vendor might have chosen to run several instances of
     that routing protocol, perhaps on different processors,
     for performance reasons. The parameters that are used
     to control the distribution of work on the different
     processors for that protocol would be implementation
     specific.

  4. Instance Specific

     Network operators are most familiar and comfortable with
     information of this type. Instance specific information
     is information refers to parameter values that have
     been associated with a specific instance in a managed
     element. For example, The Border Gateway Protocol is a
     routing protocol that has a number of parameters that
     describe information about a particular router's view
     of other routers that it is sharing information with,
     peer routers. One such parameter defined in the BGP
     MIB Module [BGP MIB] is the desired connection retry
     interval for a peer, bgpPeerConnectRetryInterval. An
     example value would be 120 (seconds). When expressed
     with this level of specificity, one would say that this
     is mechanism specific data. If we were to see a value of
     bgpPeerConnectRetryInterval. 10.0.0.1 = 120 we would be
     looking at the retry interval of the peer router found
     at IP address 10.0.0.1. The value for this instance is
     120 seconds, instance specific data.

     One of the goals of policy-based (configuration)
     management is to improve the efficiency of configuration
     operations. This is accomplished in part by eliminating the
     necessity of sending to the managed device a configuration
     object for every instance of that object in a system. For





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000            [Page 6]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


     example, if we wanted to change one of the BGP parameters
     referenced above on a large system for each interface
     that is supporting the BGP, there may be many individual
     commands needed to accomplish this task. If a command
     line interface were used as the primary configuration
     tool in this example, many configuration commands would
     be needed as well.

     When we say that a a policy is at the instance independent
     level of abstraction, we mean that the value for a
     particular parameter is independent of the instances to
     which it will be applied."


5.  What this MIB Module Provides

To be written:  to provide a high-level description of what
this MIB does.


6.  Relationship to other MIBs

In this section we describe the relationship of this MIB
module to other MIB modules.  The overall architecture used
for policy configuration management is described in
[POLICYMIB].


6.1.  The Policy-based Management MIB module

[POLICYMIB] defines a MIB module that enables policy-based
configuration management of infrastructure using the Internet
Standard Management Framework.  The document includes a table
for configuring policies to be implemented, tables for storing
the roles of elements on a particular device, a table for
representing the capabilities of a device with respect to
policy management, a table for referencing elements affected
by a policy, and a table which points to into the mechanism-
specific MIB (this memo).  This last table of pointers enables
management applications to determine the mechanism-specific
configuration to which a particular policy applies.  The
primary purpose of this is to enable the manager to correct
errors in installed policies.

The pmPolicyMechanismTable (as the table in [POLICYMIB] is





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000            [Page 7]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


tentatively called), points into mechanism-specific MIBs and
includes a RowPointer object pointing into a row in the
diffPolicyPHBTable defined below.

See [POLICYMIB] for a full description of the policy-based
configuration framework it provides.


6.2.  The DiffServ MIB module





The DiffServ Architecture MIB module [DIFFSERVMIB] provides a
common set of managed objects useful for configuring DiffServ
parameters on a particular device.  This is what is refered to
as instance-level configuration. It is the alteration of the
instance-level information in that MIB module which MAY be
done via the objects provided by the DiffServ Policy MIB
module defined in this memo.

It is recognized that vendors may include additional managed
objects in their devices (via vendor-specific MIB modules) for
configuring DiffServ parameters. If a vendor chooses to use
the objects defined in this memo for configuration, the vendor
should also provide additional managed objects in a similar
approach as defined for the DiffServ Architecture MIB module
and the DiffServ Policy MIB module.

The remainder of this subsection describes the relationship of
each table in the DiffServ Architecture MIB module to this MIB
module.

 - diffServClassifierTable:  instantiates the traffic
   classification data path. Whenever a configuration in the
   DiffServ Policy MIB module is made active, a new entry in
   the diffServClassifierTable will be created
   with data path configuration as defined in the
   diffPolicyPerHopBehaviorTable.

 - diffServSixTupleClfrTable:  traffic identification table
   and does not have a direct influence on the per-hop-behavior.
   Entries identifying traffic can be used directly by the
   subsystem implementing the DiffServ Policy MIB module.





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000            [Page 8]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


 - diffServMeterTable is a possible target table for the
   diffPolicyMeterTable.

 - diffServTBMeterTable is also a target table for the
   diffPolicyMeterTable.  When per-hop-behavior configurations
   are made active, the meter configuration used will be
   instantiated in the diffServTBMeterTable

 - diffServActionTable instantiates actions that can be
   performed on a stream of traffic. This table is the target
   for the diffPolicyActionTable whenever a configuration is
   made active.

 - diffServDscpMarkActTable is a configuration table for traffic
   marking. It is possible to have mark actions defined in this
   table that are not used for the traffic. For this reason
   the manager can use this table directly in conjunction with
   the DiffServ Policy MIB module.

 - diffServAlgDropTable is a configuration table for dropping
   traffic. It is possible to have mark actions defined in this
   table that are not used for the traffic. For this reason
   the manager can use this table directly in conjunction with
   the DiffServ Policy MIB module.



The following tables are not used for configuration and are
not referenced in any way:

 - diffServCountActTable
 - diffServCountActXTable
 - diffServDropActXTable
 - diffServQMeasureTable

The Differentiated Services Policy MIB module was designed to
have configuration templates for the Differentiated Services
MIB module. Therefore, it may appear  that the Differentiated
Services Policy MIB is largely a copy of the DIFF-SERV-MIB.
However, there is a significant difference in the semantics of
the managed objects.

In the DIFF-SERV-MIB [DIFFSERVMIB], meters, actions, queues
and schedulers are directly related to interfaces and their
interface direction. The objects directly influence traffic





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000            [Page 9]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


behavior.  This is in contrast to the objects in the
Differentiated Services Policy MIB module, where only
configuration templates are defined. The values of a template
are only to be applied when a per-hop-behavior is activated
via a policy. Only in that case are the values connected to an
interface and its direction, which could be seen as being


7.  MIB Module Design

In this section the overall design of the DiffServ Policy MIB
module is described. The first part will describe how this
module is positioned within the overall architecture.

The DiffServ Policy MIB module of the SNMP-based configuration
management framework is positioned between the Policy-based
Management MIB module and the instance-specific MIB module
(the DiffServ Architecture MIB module) as described above.

The following scheme of actions MAY be used for the subsystem:


 1) The instance-specific MIB module (for this document the
    DiffServ Architecture MIB module) is assumed to be
    implemented on the device already.

 2) The Policy-based Management MIB module includes the filters
    and actions and is implemented on the device.

 3) The mechanism-specific policy MIB module (in this case
    the DiffServ Policy MIB module) registers its capability
    in the capability table of the Policy-based Management MIB
    module.

 4) If a device has knowledge of default configurations, it can
    create the required managed objects for the default
    configurations in the tables of the mechanism-specific
    policy MIB module.

 5) The manager can then read the capability table after which
    it knows about the capabilities and can start configuring
    the mechanism-specific policy MIB module and the various
    roles that may exist (this defines the configurations and
    associations as necessary)






SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 10]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


 6) The manager can then map/instantiate policies as required
    via the policy table.


The MIB module is designed with the following tables:

 -  A per-hop-behavior table (diffPolicyPHBTable)
 -  A meter table (diffPolicyMeterTable)
 -  An action table (diffPolicyActionTable)
 -  A queue table (diffPolicyQTable)
 -  A scheduler table (diffPolicySchedulerTable)

Unlike most MIB modules, changes on the managed objects in
this MIB module do not cause a change in the device.  This MIB
module is used to set up per-hop-behavior configurations. As
soon as configurations are made active via the POLICY-
MANAGEMENT-MIB, the configurations defined within this MIB
module will be instantiated on the instance specific MIB, the
DIFF-SERV-MIB.

Note that this is a conceptual process.  That is, the
configuration may not actually go through an API available in
the subsystem which implements the DIFF-SERV-MIB module.
However, configuration via the DiffServ Policy MIB module will
alter the same instrumentation as the DIFF-SERV-MIB module
whether it does it via the DIFF-SERV-MIB module or not.

The tables in the MIB module are:

 - The diffPolicyPHBTable provides managed objects for
   per-hop-behavior configuration. This table contains
   RowPointers into subsequent tables in such a way that the
   Traffic Control Block (TCB) can be created as soon as a
   configuration is made active.

 - The diffPolicyMeterTable provides the managed objects for the
   meters used in the per-hop-behavior configuration.
   This table also contains RowPointers into next data-path
   elements if the traffic conforms to the meter or not.

 - The diffPolicyActionTable provides managed objects for
   configuring actions that are connected with meters.
   Via this table, and using 'diffPolicyMeterFailNext' and/or
   'diffPolicyMeterSucceedNext', the specific action can
   be configured.





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 11]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


 - The diffPolicyQTable provides managed objects for setting up
   individual queue configurations. The individual queues can
   be configured with the sample interval and the weight of
   the queue.

 - The diffPolicySchedulerTable enumerates policy configuration
   templates for packet schedulers.


8.  Managed objects definitions (MIB module)

-- This version of the MIB is aligned with the DIFF-SERV-MIB
-- found in draft-ietf-diffserv-mib-03.txt.  This MIB module will
-- be aligned with that work as updates are made.

DIFFSERV-POLICY-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

    IMPORTS

    Unsigned32, Integer32, OBJECT-TYPE, MODULE-IDENTITY, zeroDotZero, mib-2
       FROM SNMPv2-SMI

    RowStatus, RowPointer, TestAndIncr, DateAndTime
       FROM SNMPv2-TC

    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP
       FROM SNMPv2-CONF

    SnmpAdminString
       FROM SNMP-FRAMEWORK-MIB;

diffPolicyMib MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "200006301100Z" -- June 30, 2000, 13:00 Italy
    ORGANIZATION "SNMPCONF WG"
    CONTACT-INFO
       "SNMPCONF Working Group
        http://www.ietf.org/html.charters/snmpconf-charter.html
       Editors:

       Harrie Hazewinkel
       Postal: Titanstraat 2
               9933 CE Delfzijl
               The Netherlands
       Tel: +31 596 615843 or +39 331974135
       FAX: +39 0331974135





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 12]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


       E-mail: harrie.hazewinkel@bigfoot.com

       David Partain
       Postal: Ericsson Radio Systems
               P.O. Box 1248
               SE-581 12 Linkoping
               Sweden
       Tel: +46 13 28 41 44
       E-mail: David.Partain@ericsson.com"
    DESCRIPTION
    "This MIB module contains differentiated services
    specific managed objects to perform policy-based
    configuration management.  This MIB defines
    'templates' to be used to instantiate
    per-hop-behaviors to be assigned when a policy is
    created and activated."
    ::= { mib-2 22222222 }  -- Needs to be assigned by IANA


diffPolicyMIBObjects     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffPolicyMib 1 }
diffPolicyMIBConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffPolicyMib 3 }

--
-- The per-hop-behavior
--

-- Issues:
--   Do we want a spin-lock on this whole table or on each row
--   of the table, or not at all?

diffPolicyPHBUnique OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       TestAndIncr
    MAX-ACCESS   read-write
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The diffPolicyPHBUnique object yields a unique new
       value for diffPolicyPHBId when read and subsequently
       set. This value must be tested for uniqueness."
    ::= { diffPolicyMIBObjects 1 }

diffPolicyPHBTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF DiffPolicyPHBEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 13]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


       "A table which defines the various per-hop-behaviors
       for which the system has default 'templates'."
    ::= { diffPolicyMIBObjects 2 }

diffPolicyPHBEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       DiffPolicyPHBEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An entry defining a per-hop-behavior.
       Each entry in this table combines the various
       parameters (entries) into a specific per-hop-behavior.
       Entries in this table can as well being defined by
       a vendor (preconfigured) or as well being defined
       by a management application."
    INDEX { diffPolicyPHBId }
    ::= { diffPolicyPHBTable 1 }

DiffPolicyPHBEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    diffPolicyPHBId               Integer32,
    diffPolicyPHBDescr            SnmpAdminString,
    diffPolicyPHBOwner            SnmpAdminString,
    diffPolicyPHBLastChange       DateAndTime,
    diffPolicyPHBTrafficID        RowPointer,
    diffPolicyPHBClassPrecedence  Unsigned32,
    diffPolicyPHBMeter            RowPointer,
    diffPolicyPHBAction           RowPointer,
    diffPolicyPHBQueue            RowPointer,
    diffPolicyPHBScheduler        RowPointer,
    diffPolicyPHBStatus           RowStatus
}

diffPolicyPHBId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         Integer32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS     not-accessible
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A unique id for the per-hop-behavior policy."
    ::= { diffPolicyPHBEntry 1 }

diffPolicyPHBDescr OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         SnmpAdminString
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 14]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


       "A human-readable description to identify this
       defined per-hop-behavior.
       Note that this is an SnmpAdminString, which
       permits UTF-8 strings."
    ::= { diffPolicyPHBEntry 2 }

diffPolicyPHBOwner OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         SnmpAdminString
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The owner who creates this entry."
    ::= { diffPolicyPHBEntry 3 }

diffPolicyPHBLastChange OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS     read-only
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The date and time when this entry was changed for
       the last time."
    ::= { diffPolicyPHBEntry 4 }

diffPolicyPHBTrafficID OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The pointer to traffic identification used for this
       per-hop-behavior definition.
       This value points to a traffic classifying entry in
       the 'diffServClassifierTable' or
       the 'diffServSixTupleClfrTable'.

       NOTE: The traffic classifying tables of the DIFF-SERV-MIB
       can be used for policy configuration in this MIB module
       because the entries in the tables 'diffServClassifierTable' or
       the 'diffServSixTupleClfrTable' configure traffic filter
       templates."
    ::= { diffPolicyPHBEntry 5 }

diffPolicyPHBClassPrecedence OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS     read-write
    STATUS         current





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 15]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


    DESCRIPTION
       "The precedence of the classifier for this
       per-hop-behavior definition."
    ::= { diffPolicyPHBEntry 6 }

diffPolicyPHBMeter OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The meter which is next in the data path for the
       defined classifier applicable to this per-hop-behavior
       configuration.

       The value points to an entry in the 'diffPolicyMeterTable'."
    DEFVAL { zeroDotZero }
    ::= { diffPolicyPHBEntry 7 }

diffPolicyPHBAction OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The action which is next in the data path for the
       defined classifier applicable to this per-hop-behavior
       definition.

       The value points to an entry in the 'diffPolicyActionTable'.

       The value 'zeroDotZero' is used when there is no
       action associated with the per-hop-behavior."
    DEFVAL { zeroDotZero }
    ::= { diffPolicyPHBEntry 8 }

diffPolicyPHBQueue OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The queue defined that is used for the
       configuration of this per-hop-behavior.

       The value points to an entry in the 'diffPolicyQTable'.

       The value 'zeroDotZero' is used when there is no





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 16]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


       queue associated with the per-hop-behavior."
    DEFVAL { zeroDotZero }
    ::= { diffPolicyPHBEntry 9 }

diffPolicyPHBScheduler OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Scheduler defined that is used for the
       configuration of this per-hop-behavior.

       The value points to an entry in the 'diffPolicySchedulerTable'.

       The value 'zeroDotZero' is used when there is no
       scheduler associated with the per-hop-behavior"
    DEFVAL { zeroDotZero }
    ::= { diffPolicyPHBEntry 10 }

diffPolicyPHBStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "RowStatus object used for creation and deletion of
       rows in this table."
    ::= { diffPolicyPHBEntry 11 }

--
-- Meters Configuration
--


diffPolicyMeterUnique OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       TestAndIncr
    MAX-ACCESS   read-write
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The diffPolicyMeterUnique object yields a unique new
       value for diffPolicyMeterId when read and subsequently
       set. This value must be tested for uniqueness."
    ::= { diffPolicyMIBObjects 3 }

diffPolicyMeterTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF DiffPolicyMeterEntry





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 17]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This table enumerates templates for configuration of
       specific token bucket meters that can be used for
       per-hop-behavior definitions.

       This tables provides policy configuration templates
       for the 'diffServMeterTable' and the 'diffServTBMeterTable'.

       When changes are made in this table the behavior of the
       DiffServ router is not changed. The behavior only changes
       when the policy of which this meter is part is applied."
    ::= { diffPolicyMIBObjects 4 }

diffPolicyMeterEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       DiffPolicyMeterEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An entry in the meter table."
    INDEX { diffPolicyMeterId  }
    ::= { diffPolicyMeterTable 1 }


DiffPolicyMeterEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffPolicyMeterId                Integer32,
    diffPolicyMeterRate              Unsigned32,
    diffPolicyMeterBurstSize         Unsigned32,
    diffPolicyMeterFailNext          RowPointer,
    diffPolicyMeterSucceedNext       RowPointer,
    diffPolicyMeterStatus            RowStatus
}

diffPolicyMeterId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Integer32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An index to make MeterId for each entry."
    ::= { diffPolicyMeterEntry 1 }

diffPolicyMeterRate OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    UNITS        "KBPS" -- kilobits





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 18]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The token bucket rate, in kilo-bits per second (KBPS)
       applicable for this Meter definition."
    ::= { diffPolicyMeterEntry 2 }

diffPolicyMeterBurstSize OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    UNITS        "bytes"
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The configuration value of the number of bytes
       in a single transmission burst when this policy
       configuration is applied to a Meter."
    ::= { diffPolicyMeterEntry 3 }

diffPolicyMeterFailNext OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The next Meter or Action configured that will handle the traffic
       when the meter does not conform the meter.

       This value points can point towards an entry in the
       diffPolicyMeterTable, diffPolicyActionTable.

       The value 'zeroDotZero' is used when there is no
       next component in the data path."
    DEFVAL { zeroDotZero }
    ::= { diffPolicyMeterEntry 4 }

diffPolicyMeterSucceedNext OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The next Meter or Action configured that will handle the traffic
       when the meter does conform the meter.
       This value points can point towards an entry in the
       diffPolicyMeterTable, diffPolicyActionTable.

       The value 'zeroDotZero' is used when there is no





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 19]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


       next component in the data path."
    DEFVAL      { zeroDotZero }
    ::= { diffPolicyMeterEntry 5 }

diffPolicyMeterStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The RowStatus variable controls the creation
       or deletion of a meter configuration."
    ::= { diffPolicyMeterEntry 6 }

--
-- Actions
--

diffPolicyActionUnique OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       TestAndIncr
    MAX-ACCESS   read-write
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The diffPolicyActionUnique object yields a unique new
       value for diffPolicyActionId when read and subsequently
       set. This value must be tested for uniqueness."
    ::= { diffPolicyMIBObjects 5 }

diffPolicyActionTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF DiffPolicyActionEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This Table enumerates templates for actions that can be
       performed on a stream of traffic. Various templates
       can be concatenated.

       This table can be used for configuration of the
       'diffServActionTable' and 'diffServDscpMarkActTable'.
       For policy configuration for these 2 tables they
       are combined in 1 table."
    ::= { diffPolicyMIBObjects 6 }

diffPolicyActionEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       DiffPolicyActionEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 20]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An entry in the action table describes the actions
       applied to traffic exiting a given meter."
    INDEX { diffPolicyActionId }
    ::= { diffPolicyActionTable 1 }

DiffPolicyActionEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffPolicyActionId                Unsigned32,
    diffPolicyActionNext              RowPointer,
    diffPolicyActionType              INTEGER,
    diffPolicyActionStatus            RowStatus
}

diffPolicyActionId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Action Id enumerates the Action entry for
       a per-hop-behavior definition."
    ::= { diffPolicyActionEntry 1 }

diffPolicyActionNext OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Next pointer indicates the next data path element
       to handle the traffic that is applicable to this
       per-hop-behavior definition.

       The value 'zeroDotZero' is used when there is no
       next component in the data path."
    DEFVAL { zeroDotZero }
    ::= { diffPolicyActionEntry 2 }

diffPolicyActionType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       INTEGER {
                     other(1),      -- types not specified here.
                     mark(2),       -- mark or remark
                     count(3),      -- count
                     alwaysDrop(4), -- disallow traffic
                     tailDrop(5),   -- fix queue size Drop
                     randomDrop(6), -- Random Drop





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 21]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


                     deterDrop(7)   -- Deterministic Drop
                 }
    MAX-ACCESS   read-write
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Indicates the type of action for this configuration."
    ::= { diffPolicyActionEntry 3 }

diffPolicyActionStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The RowStatus variable controls the creation,
       or deletion of a action configuration."
    ::= { diffPolicyActionEntry 4 }

--
-- Queues
--

diffPolicyQUnique OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       TestAndIncr
    MAX-ACCESS   read-write
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The diffPolicyQUnique object yields a unique new value
       for diffPolicyQId when read and subsequently set. This
       value must be tested for uniqueness."
    ::= { diffPolicyMIBObjects 7 }

diffPolicyQTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF DiffPolicyQEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Queue Table enumerates the queues that
       can be assigned when a per-hop-behavior is assigned.
       This table includes the measure values which
       are defined in the DIFF-SERV-MIB in a separate table."
    ::= { diffPolicyMIBObjects 8 }

diffPolicyQEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       DiffPolicyQEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 22]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An entry in the Queue Table describes a single FIFO
       queue."
    INDEX { diffPolicyQId, diffPolicyQId }
    ::= { diffPolicyQTable 1 }

DiffPolicyQEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffPolicyQId                      Integer32,
    diffPolicyQPriority                Unsigned32,
    diffPolicyQMinRateAbs              Unsigned32,
    diffPolicyQMinRateRel              Unsigned32,
    diffPolicyQMaxRateAbs              Unsigned32,
    diffPolicyQMaxRateRel              Unsigned32,
    diffPolicyQStatus                  RowStatus
}

diffPolicyQId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Integer32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Queue Id enumerates the Queue entry."
    ::= { diffPolicyQEntry 1 }

diffPolicyQPriority OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The priority of the queue."
    ::= { diffPolicyQEntry 2 }

diffPolicyQMinRateAbs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    UNITS        "kilobits per second"
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The minimum absolute rate, in kilobits/sec, with which
       a downstream scheduler element should configured."
    REFERENCE
       "diffServQMinRateAbs from [DIFFSERVMIB]"
    ::= { diffPolicyQEntry 3 }






SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 23]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


diffPolicyQMinRateRel OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The minimum rate with which a downstream scheduler element
       should be configured."
    REFERENCE
       "diffServQMinRateRel from [DIFFSERVMIB]"
    ::= { diffPolicyQEntry 4 }

diffPolicyQMaxRateAbs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    UNITS        "kilobits per second"
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The maximum absolute rate, in kilobits/sec, with which
       a downstream scheduler element should configured."
    REFERENCE
       "diffServQMaxRateAbs from [DIFFSERVMIB]"
    ::= { diffPolicyQEntry 5 }

diffPolicyQMaxRateRel OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The maximum rate with which a downstream scheduler element
       should be configured."
    REFERENCE
       "diffServQMaxRateRel from [DIFFSERVMIB]"
    ::= { diffPolicyQEntry 6 }

diffPolicyQStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The RowStatus variable controls the creation,
       or deletion of a queue configuration."
    ::= { diffPolicyQEntry 7 }

   --
   -- Scheduler





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 24]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


   --

diffPolicySchedulerUnique OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       TestAndIncr
    MAX-ACCESS   read-write
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The diffPolicySchedulerUnique object yields a unique new value for
       diffPolicySchedulerId when read and subsequently set.  This value
       must be tested for uniqueness and can be used by a configuring
       system to obtain a unique value for diffPolicySchedulerId for
       purposes of row creation in the diffPolicySchedulerTable."
    ::= { diffPolicyMIBObjects 9 }


diffPolicySchedulerTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF DiffPolicySchedulerEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Scheduler Table enumerates policy configuration
       templates for packet schedulers."
    ::= { diffPolicyMIBObjects 10 }

diffPolicySchedulerEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       DiffPolicySchedulerEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An entry in the Policy Scheduler Table describing a
       single configuration template for a scheduling algorithm."
    INDEX { diffPolicySchedulerId }
    ::= { diffPolicySchedulerTable 1 }

DiffPolicySchedulerEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffPolicySchedulerId                   Integer32,
    diffPolicySchedulerMethod               INTEGER,
    diffPolicySchedulerNext                 RowPointer,
    diffPolicySchedulerStatus               RowStatus
}

diffPolicySchedulerId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Integer32 (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 25]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


    DESCRIPTION
       "The Policy Scheduler Id enumerates the Policy Scheduler entry."
    ::= { diffPolicySchedulerEntry 1  }

diffPolicySchedulerMethod OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       INTEGER {
                    other(1),        -- not listed here
                    priorityq(2),    -- Priority Queueing
                    wrr(3)           -- Weighed Round Robin
                }
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The scheduling algorithm used when this policy is applied
       to a Scheduler."
    REFERENCE
       "diffServSchedulerMethod [DIFFSERV-MIB]"
    ::= { diffPolicySchedulerEntry 2 }

diffPolicySchedulerNext OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The next data path component that is applicable for
       this scheduler configuration.

       The value can point to an entry in the 'diffPolicyMeterTable',
       'diffPolicyActionTable', 'diffPolicyQTable' or the
       'diffPolicySchedulerTable'.

       The value 'zeroDotZero' is used when there is no
       next component in the data path."
    DEFVAL       { zeroDotZero }
    ::= { diffPolicySchedulerEntry 3 }

diffPolicySchedulerStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The RowStatus variable via which this configuration
       template can be created, deleted or modified."
    ::= { diffPolicySchedulerEntry 4 }






SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 26]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


--
-- MIB Compliance statements.
--

diffPolicyMIBCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffPolicyMIBConformance 1 }
diffPolicyMIBGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffPolicyMIBConformance 2 }

diffPolicyMIBFullCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The full compliance for this MIB module."
    MODULE  -- This module
    MANDATORY-GROUPS {  diffPolicyMIBPerHopBehaviorGroup,
        diffPolicyMIBMeterGroup,
        diffPolicyMIBActionGroup,
        diffPolicyMIBQueueGroup,
        diffPolicyMIBSchedulerGroup }
    ::= { diffPolicyMIBCompliances 1 }

diffPolicyMIBPerHopBehaviorGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {  diffPolicyPHBDescr,
               diffPolicyPHBOwner,
               diffPolicyPHBLastChange,
               diffPolicyPHBTrafficID,
               diffPolicyPHBClassPrecedence,
               diffPolicyPHBMeter,
               diffPolicyPHBAction,
               diffPolicyPHBQueue,
               diffPolicyPHBScheduler,
               diffPolicyPHBStatus
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The per-hop-behavior Group defines the MIB Objects that
       describe the configuration template for the per-hop-behavior."
    ::= { diffPolicyMIBGroups 1 }

diffPolicyMIBMeterGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {   diffPolicyMeterRate,
                diffPolicyMeterBurstSize,
                diffPolicyMeterFailNext,
                diffPolicyMeterSucceedNext,
                diffPolicyMeterStatus
    }
    STATUS current





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 27]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


    DESCRIPTION
       "The Meter Group defines the objects used for configuring a generic
       meter and token bucket elements."
    ::= { diffPolicyMIBGroups 2 }

diffPolicyMIBActionGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {   diffPolicyActionNext,
                diffPolicyActionType,
                diffPolicyActionStatus
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Action Group defines the objects used for configuration of
       actions."
    ::= { diffPolicyMIBGroups 3 }

diffPolicyMIBQueueGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {   diffPolicyQPriority,
                diffPolicyQMinRateAbs,
                diffPolicyQMinRateRel,
                diffPolicyQMaxRateAbs,
                diffPolicyQMaxRateRel,
                diffPolicyQStatus
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Queue Group contains the objects which can
       be used for configuration of Queues."
    ::= { diffPolicyMIBGroups 4 }


diffPolicyMIBSchedulerGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {   diffPolicySchedulerMethod,
                diffPolicySchedulerNext,
                diffPolicySchedulerStatus
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Scheduler Group contains the objects that are used
       for configuration of packet schedulers on interfaces."
    ::= { diffPolicyMIBGroups 5 }

END







SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 28]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


9.  Security Considerations

Security information here


10.  Editors' Addresses

   Harrie Hazewinkel
   Titanstraat 2
   9933 CE Delfzijl
   The Netherlands
   Phone: +31 596 615843 or +39 331974135
   EMail: harrie.hazewinkel@bigfoot.com

   David Partain
   Ericsson Radio Systems
   Research and Innovation
   P.O. Box 1248
   SE-581 12 Linkoping
   Sweden
   Phone:  +46 13 28 41 44
   EMail:  David.Partain@ericsson.com


11.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2000).  All Rights
Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and
furnished to others, and derivative works that comment on or
otherwise explain it or assist in its implementation may be
prepared, copied, published and distributed, in whole or in
part, without restriction of any kind, provided that the above
copyright notice and this paragraph are included on all such
copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the
copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or
other Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose
of developing Internet standards in which case the procedures
for copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must
be followed, or as required to translate it into languages
other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 29]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


not be revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or
assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided
on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET
ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE
USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE."


12.  References

Others to be added as time goes by!

[1]  Harrington, D., Presuhn, R., and B. Wijnen, "An Architecture for
     Describing SNMP Management Frameworks", RFC 2571, Cabletron
     Systems, Inc., BMC Software, Inc., IBM T. J. Watson Research, April
     1999

[2]  Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Structure and Identification of
     Management Information for TCP/IP-based Internets", RFC 1155, STD
     16, Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems, May 1990

[3]  Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Concise MIB Definitions", RFC 1212,
     STD 16, Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems,
     March 1991

[4]  M. Rose, "A Convention for Defining Traps for use with the SNMP",
     RFC 1215, Performance Systems International, March 1991

[5]  McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J., Rose, M.,
     and S. Waldbusser, "Structure of Management Information Version 2
     (SMIv2)", RFC 2578, STD 58, Cisco Systems, SNMPinfo, TU
     Braunschweig, SNMP Research, First Virtual Holdings, International
     Network Services, April 1999

[6]  McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J., Rose, M.,
     and S. Waldbusser, "Textual Conventions for SMIv2", RFC 2579, STD
     58, Cisco Systems, SNMPinfo, TU Braunschweig, SNMP Research, First
     Virtual Holdings, International Network Services, April 1999

[7]  McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J., Rose, M.,
     and S. Waldbusser, "Conformance Statements for SMIv2", RFC 2580,





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 30]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


     STD 58, Cisco Systems, SNMPinfo, TU Braunschweig, SNMP Research,
     First Virtual Holdings, International Network Services, April 1999

[8]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin, "Simple Network
     Management Protocol", RFC 1157, STD 15, SNMP Research, Performance
     Systems International, Performance Systems International, MIT
     Laboratory for Computer Science, May 1990.

[9]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser,
     "Introduction to Community-based SNMPv2", RFC 1901, SNMP Research,
     Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.,
     International Network Services, January 1996.

[10] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Transport
     Mappings for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1906, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[11] Case, J., Harrington D., Presuhn R., and B. Wijnen, "Message
     Processing and Dispatching for the Simple Network Management
     Protocol (SNMP)", RFC 2572, SNMP Research, Inc., Cabletron Systems,
     Inc., BMC Software, Inc., IBM T. J. Watson Research, April 1999

[12] Blumenthal, U., and B. Wijnen, "User-based Security Model (USM) for
     version 3 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv3)", RFC
     2574, IBM T. J. Watson Research, April 1999

[13] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Protocol
     Operations for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[14] Levi, D., Meyer, P., and B. Stewart, "SNMPv3 Applications", RFC
     2573, SNMP Research, Inc., Secure Computing Corporation, Cisco
     Systems, April 1999

[15] Wijnen, B., Presuhn, R., and K. McCloghrie, "View-based Access
     Control Model (VACM) for the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMP)", RFC 2575, IBM T. J. Watson Research, BMC Software, Inc.,
     Cisco Systems, Inc., April 1999

[16] Case, J., Mundy, R., Partain, D., and B. Stewart, "Introduction to
     Version 3 of the Internet-standard Network Management Framework",





SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 31]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


     RFC 2570, SNMP Research, Inc., TIS Labs at Network Associates,
     Inc., Ericsson, Cisco Systems, April 1999

[PBCM] J. Saperia, "Policy-based Configuration Management", Work
     in Progress, June 2000.

[DIFFSERVMIB] Baker, F., K. Chan, and A. Smith, Management
     Information Base for the Differentiated Services
     Architecture, Work in Progress, May 2000.

[POLICYMIB] Waldbusser, S., J. Saperia, T. Hongal, Policy Based
     Management MIB, Work in Progress, May 2000.

[SNMPBCP] MacFaden M., J. Saperia, CONFIGURING NETWORKS AND DEVICES
     WITH SNMP, Work in Progress, May 2000.

[COPS-PR] Chan, K.H.., D. Durham, S. Gai, S. Herzog, K.  McCloghrie, F.
     Reichmeyer, J. Seligson, A. Smith, R.  Yavatkar, COPS Usage
     for Policy Provisioning, Work in Progress, March 2000.

[IPSEC] To be added

[BGP MIB] to be added if necessary.



























SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 32]





Internet Draft        DiffServ Policy MIB            June 2000


Table of Contents



1 Abstract ..............................................    2
2 The SNMP Management Framework .........................    3
3 Introduction ..........................................    4
4 Definitions ...........................................    4
5 What this MIB Module Provides .........................    7
6 Relationship to other MIBs ............................    7
6.1 The Policy-based Management MIB module ..............    7
6.2 The DiffServ MIB module .............................    8
7 MIB Module Design .....................................   10
8 Managed objects definitions (MIB module) ..............   12
9 Security Considerations ...............................   29
10 Editors' Addresses ...................................   29
11 Full Copyright Statement .............................   29
12 References ...........................................   30
































SNMPCONF WG          Expires December 2000           [Page 33]

