
Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)                     Kenneth White
INTERNET DRAFT: <draft-white-slapm-mib-01.txt>                 IBM Corp.
Expiration Date: March 1999

September 1998



                    Definitions of Managed Objects for
                        Service Level Agreements
                          Performance Monitoring
                      <draft-white-slapm-mib-01.txt>




Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet Draft.  Internet Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its Areas, and
its Working Groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet Drafts.

Internet Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months.
Internet Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
documents at any time.  It is not appropriate to use Internet Drafts as
reference material or to cite them other than as a "working draft" or
"work in progress."

Please check the I-D abstract listing contained in each Internet Draft
directory to learn the current status of this or any Internet Draft.
Distribution of this document is unlimited.


Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1998).  All Rights Reserved.


Abstract

This memo defines a Management Information Base (MIB) for performing
performance monitoring of Service Level Agreements (SLAs) defined via
policy definitions.  The MIB defined herein focuses on defining a set of
objects for monitoring SLAs and not on replication of the content of the
policy definitions being monitored.

The MIB defined by this document is based upon the content of 'Schema
for Service Level Administration of Differential Services and Integrated
Services in Networks', refer to [19].


Table of Contents

1.0  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                  [Page 1]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

2.0  The SNMP Network Management Framework   . . . . . . . . . . . .   2

3.0  Structure of the MIB  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
3.1  Global simple objects   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
3.2  slapmPolicyStatsTable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
3.3  slapmPolicyMonitorTable   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
3.4  slapmTcpConnTable and slapmUdpTable   . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6

4.0  Definitions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6

5.0  Security Considerations   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  32

6.0  Intellectual Property   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33

7.0  Acknowledgments   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33

8.0  References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  33

9.0  Author's Address  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35

10.0  Full Copyright Statement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  35



1.0  Introduction

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119, reference [13].

This document is a product of the Internet Engineering Task Force
(IETF).  Its purpose is to define a MIB module for performance
management of Service Level Agreements (SLAs).  An SLA is defined via
policy.  There are a number of methods that exist for how policy is
defined and administered.  Definition of these methods is considered out
side of the scope of this document.  For modeling the contents of this
MIB a policy definition is considered to consist of a set of profiles
that select the conditions for when a policy action should be applied.
Refer to "Schema for Service Level Administration of Differential
Services and Integrated Services in Networks" [19] for a definition of
policy, traffic profile and action.

The SLAPM-MIB is structured primarily to enable monitoring policy
traffic profiles at a system.  A system can be either an edge device
(end-system) or an interior device or node (e.g. router).


2.0  The SNMP Network Management Framework

The SNMP Management Framework presently consists of five major
components:

o   An overall architecture, described in RFC 2271 [7].


White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                  [Page 2]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

o   Mechanisms for describing and naming objects and events for the
    purpose of management.  The first version of this Structure of
    Management Information (SMI) is called SMIv1 and described in RFC
    1155 [14], RFC 1212 [15] and RFC 1215 [16].  The second version,
    called SMIv2, is described in RFC 1902 [3], RFC 1903 [4] and RFC
    1904 [5].

o   Message protocols for transferring management information.  The
    first version of the SNMP message protocol is called SNMPv1 and
    described in RFC 1157 [1].  A second version of the SNMP message
    protocol, which is not an Internet standards track protocol, is
    called SNMPv2c and described in RFC 1901 [17] and RFC 1906 [18].
    The third version of the message protocol is called SNMPv3 and
    described in RFC 1906 [18], RFC 2272 [8] and RFC 2274 [10].

o   Protocol operations for accessing management information.  The first
    set of protocol operations and associated PDU formats is described
    in RFC 1157 [1].  A second set of protocol operations and associated
    PDU formats is described in RFC 1905 [6].

o   A set of fundamental applications described in RFC 2273 [9] and the
    view-based access control mechanism described in RFC 2275 [11].

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
ore, using the mechanisms defined in the SMI.

This memo specifies a MIB module that is compliant to the SMIv2.  A MIB
conforming to the SMIv1 can be produced through the appropriate
translations.  The resulting translated MIB must be semantically
equivalent, except where objects or events are omitted because no
translation is possible (use of Counter64).  Some machine readable
information in SMIv2 will be converted into textual descriptions in
SMIv1 during the translation process.  However, this loss of machine
readable information is not considered to change the semantics of the
MIB.


3.0  Structure of the MIB

The SLAPM-MIB consists of the following components:

o   Global simple objects

o   slapmPolicyStatsTable

o   slapmPolicyMonitorTable

o   slapmTcpConnTable and slapmUdpTable

Refer to the compliance statement defined within SLAPM-MIB for a
definition of what objects MUST be implemented by all systems as opposed
to those that MUST be implemented by host systems only.


White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                  [Page 3]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

3.1  Global simple objects

Global objects defined within SLAPM-MIB:

o   slapmSpinLock

    Enables multiple management application access to SLAPM-MIB.  An
    agent MUST implement the slapmSpinLock object to enable management
    applications to coordinate their use of the SLAPM-MIB.  Management
    application use of slapmSpinLock is OPTIONAL.

o   slapmPolicyCountQueries, slapmPolicyCountAccesses,
    slapmPolicyCountSuccessAccesses, and slapmPolicyCountNotFounds

    Basic statistics on the amount of policy directory access that has
    occured at a system.

o   slapmPolicyPurgeTime

    Used to prevent the entries in various SLAPM-MIB tables that relate
    to a policy definition from immediately being deleted when the
    corresponding policy definition no longer exists.  This gives
    management applications time to discover this condition and close
    out any polled based interval data that may be being collected.
    Refer to the OBJECT description for slapmPolicyPurgeTime for a more
    precise description of this function.

3.2  slapmPolicyStatsTable

The slapmPolicyStatsTable is the main table defined by SLAPM-MIB.  The
primary index for this table is slapmPolicyStatsSystemAddress that
enables support of multiple systems from a single policy agent.  The
index element, slapmPolicyStatsSystemAddress, value must be either the
zero-length octet string when at a policy agent only a single system is
being support, 4 octets for a ipv4 address, or 16 octets for a ipv6
address.

It is possible that on a single system multiple policy agent instances
exists.  The Entity MIB, refer to [20], should be used to handle the
resulting MIBs.

 With respect to slapmPolicyStatsSystemAddress one slapmPolicyStatsEntry
exists for each SLA traffic profile per policy definition.  The
structure of indexing for slapmPolicyStatsTable assumes that it is
permissible for a policy to consist of a set of traffic profiles.
Systems that allow only a single traffic profile to be specified per
policy definition should still use the name of the traffic profile as
the second index into slapmPolicyStatsTable in order to conform to
SLAPM-MIB.  Use of a zero-length octet string to indicate this condition
is NOT allowed.

SLAPM-MIB also assumes that only a single action can be defined for any
single policy definition and hence an action's name doesn't need to be
reflected in table indexing.  p.This table provides basic statistics on

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                  [Page 4]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

the set of policy traffic profiles known at a system.  Entries in this
table are not administered via SNMP.  An agent implementation for this
table MUST reflect its current set of policy definitions via table
entries.  The mechanisms for policy administration are outside of the
scope of this memo.


3.3  slapmPolicyMonitorTable

The slapmPolicyMonitorTable provides a method of monitoring the effect
of SLA policy being used at a system.  A management application creates
an slapmPolicyMonitorEntry for each collection that it requires.  The
value of the BITS slapmPolicyMonitorControl object determines what type
of collection occurs:

o   monitorMinRate(0)

    Use the value of slapmPolicyMonitorInterval as the interval to
    determine current traffic rate, slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentInRate plus
    slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentOutRate, that can be compared to
    slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateLow for determining when to generate a
    slapmMinRateNotAchieved notification.  The notification
    slapmMinRateOkay is generated when the problem is resolved.  This
    can be determined by comparing the current rate to
    slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateHigh.

o   monitorMaxRate(1)

    Use the value of slapmPolicyMonitorInterval as the interval to
    determine current traffic rate, slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentInRate plus
    slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentOutRate, that can be compared to
    slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateHigh for determining when to generate a
    slapmMaxRateExceeded notification. The notification slapmMaxRateOkay
    is generated when the problem is resolved.  This can be determined
    by comparing the current rate to slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateLow.

o   monitorMaxDelay(2)

    Use the value of slapmPolicyMonitorInterval as the interval to
    determine the current delay.  This can be calculated by averaging
    the round trip times for all TCP connections associated with the
    policy definition.  Compare this value to
    slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayHigh for determining when to generate a
    slapmMaxDelayExceeded notification.  The notification
    slapmMaxDelayOkay is generated when the problem is resolved.  This
    can be determined by comparing the current rate to
    slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayLow.

The slapmPolicyMonitorControl BITS setting, enableTraps(3), must be set
in order for any notifications relating to a particular
slapmPolicyMonitorEntry to be generated.

The index element slapmPolicyMonitorOwnerIndex is used as the first
index in slapmPolicyMonitorTable in order to enable SNMPv3 VACM security

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                  [Page 5]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

control.  The slapmPolicyMonitorTable is the only table that supports
SNMP RowStatus operations.

3.4  slapmTcpConnTable and slapmUdpTable

Entries are made into slapmTcpConnTable or slapmUdpTable to indicate
actual policy usage and to provide general statistics on a TCP
connection or UDP listener level.


4.0  Definitions

  SLAPM-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN


   IMPORTS
      MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE,
      experimental, Integer32, NOTIFICATION-TYPE,
      Gauge32, Counter32, TimeTicks
          FROM SNMPv2-SMI                  -- RFC1902
      TEXTUAL-CONVENTION, RowStatus,
      TestAndIncr, DateAndTime
          FROM SNMPv2-TC                   -- RFC1903
      MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP,
      NOTIFICATION-GROUP
          FROM SNMPv2-CONF                 -- RFC1904
      SnmpAdminString
          FROM SNMP-FRAMEWORK-MIB;         -- RFC2271

   slapmMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
      LAST-UPDATED "9809140000Z"
      ORGANIZATION "Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF)"
      CONTACT-INFO
          "Kenneth White

          International Business Machines Corporation
          Network Computing Software Division
          Research Triangle Park, NC, USA

          E-mail: kennethw@vnet.ibm.com"
      DESCRIPTION
          "The Service Level Agreement Performance Monitoring MIB
          (SLAPM-MIB) provides data collection and monitoring
          capabilities for the Service Level Agreements (SLAs)
          policy definitions."
      ::= { experimental 88 }

   -- Textual Conventions

   SlapmNameType ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
      STATUS  current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The textual convention for naming entities
          within this MIB.  The actual contents of an object

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                  [Page 6]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

          defined using this textual convention should consist
          of the distinguished name portion of an name.
          This is usually the right-most
          portion of the name.  This convention is necessary,
          since names within this MIB can be used as index
          items and an instance identifier is limited to 128
          subidentifiers."
      SYNTAX  SnmpAdminString (SIZE(0..32))


   -- Top-level structure of the MIB

   slapmNotifications  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { slapmMIB 0 }
   slapmObjects        OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { slapmMIB 1 }
   slapmConformance    OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { slapmMIB 2 }


   -- All simple objects

   slapmBaseObjects    OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { slapmObjects 1 }

   -- Simple Object Definitions

   slapmSpinLock OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      TestAndIncr
      MAX-ACCESS  read-write
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "An advisory lock used to allow cooperating applications
         to coordinate their use of the contents of this MIB.  This
         typically occurs when an application seeks to create an
         new entry or alter an existing entry in slapmPolicyMonitorTable.
         A management implementation MAY utilize the slapmSpinLock to
         serialize its changes or additions.  This usage is not required.
         However, slapmSpinLock MUST be supported by agent implementations."
      ::= { slapmBaseObjects 1 }

   slapmPolicyCountQueries OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The total number of times that a policy lookup occurred.  This
         is the number of times that a reference was made to a policy
         definition at a system and includes the number of times
         that a policy repository was accessed, slapmPolicyCountAccesses.
         The object slapmPolicyCountAccesses should be less than
         slapmPolicyCountQueries when policy definitions are cached at
         a system."
      ::= { slapmBaseObjects 2 }

   slapmPolicyCountAccesses OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                  [Page 7]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "Total number of times that a policy repository was
          accessed.  The value of this object should be less than
          slapmPolicyCountQueries, since typically policy entries are
          cached to minimize repository accesses."
      ::= { slapmBaseObjects 3 }

   slapmPolicyCountSuccessAccesses OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "Total number of successful policy repository accesses."
      ::= { slapmBaseObjects 4 }

   slapmPolicyCountNotFounds OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "Total number of policy repository accesses that resulted
         in an entry not being located."
      ::= { slapmBaseObjects 5 }

   slapmPolicyPurgeTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Integer32 (0..3600)  -- maximum of 1 hour
      UNITS       "seconds"
      MAX-ACCESS  read-write
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The purpose of this object is to define the amount
         of time (in seconds) to wait before removing an
         slapmPolicyStatsEntry when a system detects that the
         associated policy definition has been deleted.
         This gives any polling management applications
         time to complete their last poll before an entry is
         removed.  An slapmPolicyStatsEntry enters the
         deleteNeeded(3) state via slapmPolicyStatsOperStatus
         when a system first detects that the entry needs
         to be removed.

         Once an slapmPolicyStatsEntry has becomes eligible for
         deletion (slapmPolicyPurgeTime has expired) it is
         removed as long as there are no dependent entries in
         the slapmPolicyMonitorTable.  An slapmPolicyStatsEntry
         enters the deleted(4) state as defined by
         slapmPolicyStatsOperstatus when it needs to be deleted
         but can't due to dependent slapmPolicyMonitorTable
         entries. A slapmPolicyDeleteNeeded notification
         is generated when this condition is detected.

         A value of 0 for this option disables this function and
         results in either the purging of slapmPolicyTable entries

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                  [Page 8]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

         upon transition into deleteNeeded(3) state or generation
         of a slapmPolicyDeleteNeeded notification."
      DEFVAL { 900 }  -- 15 minute default purge time
      ::= { slapmBaseObjects 6 }

   slapmTableObjects    OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { slapmObjects 2 }

   -- Sla Performance Monitoring Policy Statistics Table

   slapmPolicyStatsTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF SlapmPolicyStatsEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Provides statistics on all policies known at a
          system."
     ::= { slapmTableObjects 1 }

   slapmPolicyStatsEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SlapmPolicyStatsEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Defines an entry in the slapmPolicySetupTable.  This table
          defines a set of statistics that is kept on a per system,
          policy and traffic profile basis.  A policy can be
          defined to contain multiple traffic profiles that map to
          a single action.

          Entries in this table are not created on deleted via SNMP
          but reflect the set of policy definitions known at a system."
      INDEX {
             slapmPolicyStatsSystemAddress,
             slapmPolicyStatsPolicyName,
             slapmPolicyStatsTrafficProfileName
            }
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsTable 1 }

   SlapmPolicyStatsEntry ::=
      SEQUENCE {
          slapmPolicyStatsSystemAddress      OCTET STRING,
          slapmPolicyStatsPolicyName         SlapmNameType,
          slapmPolicyStatsTrafficProfileName SlapmNameType,
          slapmPolicyStatsOperStatus         INTEGER,
          slapmPolicyStatsActiveConns        Gauge32,
          slapmPolicyStatsTotalConns         Counter32,
          slapmPolicyStatsFirstActivated     DateAndTime,
          slapmPolicyStatsLastMapping        DateAndTime,
          slapmPolicyStatsInOctets           Counter32,
          slapmPolicyStatsOutOctets          Counter32,
          slapmPolicyStatsConnectionLimit    Integer32,
          slapmPolicyStatsCountAccepts       Counter32,
          slapmPolicyStatsCountDenies        Counter32,
          slapmPolicyStatsInDiscards         Counter32,

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                  [Page 9]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

          slapmPolicyStatsOutDiscards        Counter32,
          slapmPolicyStatsInPackets          Counter32,
          slapmPolicyStatsOutPackets         Counter32,
          slapmPolicyStatsInProfileOctets    Counter32,
          slapmPolicyStatsOutProfileOctets   Counter32
      }

   slapmPolicyStatsSystemAddress OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      OCTET STRING (SIZE(0..16))
      MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "Address of a system that an Policy definition relates to.
         A zero length octet string can be used to indicate that
         only a single system is being represented.
         Otherwise, the length of the octet string should be
         4 for an ipv4 address and 16 for an ipv6 address."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 1 }

   slapmPolicyStatsPolicyName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      SlapmNameType
      MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "Policy name that this entry relates to."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 2 }

   slapmPolicyStatsTrafficProfileName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      SlapmNameType
      MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The name of a traffic profile that is associated with a policy."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 3 }

   slapmPolicyStatsOperStatus OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                           inactive(1),
                           active(2),
                           deleteNeeded(3),
                           deleted(4)
                          }
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The state of a policy entry:

           inactive(1)      - An policy entry was either defined
                              by local SYSDEF or discovered via
                              a directory search but has not
                              been activated (not currently being used).
           active(2)        - Policy entry is being used to affect
                              traffic flows.
           deleteNeeded(3)  - Either though local implementation

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 10]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

                              dependent methods or by discovering
                              that the directory entry corresponding
                              to this table entry no longer
                              exists and slapmPolicyPurgeTime needs
                              to expire before attempting to remove
                              the corresponding slapmPolicyStatsEntry.
           deleted(4)       - Entry needs to be removed but can't due
                              to dependent slapmPolicyMonitorTable
                              entries existing."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 4 }

   slapmPolicyStatsActiveConns OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Gauge32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The number of active connects that are affected by the
         corresponding policy entry."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 5 }

   slapmPolicyStatsTotalConns OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The number of active connects that are affected by the
         corresponding policy entry."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 6 }

   slapmPolicyStatsFirstActivated OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      DateAndTime
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The timestamp for when the corresponding policy entry
         is activated.  The value of this object serves as
         the discontinuity event indicator when polling entries
         in this table.  The value of this object is updated on
         transition of slapmPolicyStatsOperStatus into the active(2)
         state."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 7 }

   slapmPolicyStatsLastMapping OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      DateAndTime
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The timestamp for when the last time
         that the associated policy entry was used."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 8 }

   slapmPolicyStatsInOctets OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 11]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The number of octets that was received by IP for an entity
         that map to this entry."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 9 }

   slapmPolicyStatsOutOctets OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The number of octets that was transmitted by IP for an entity
         that map to this entry."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 10 }

   slapmPolicyStatsConnectionLimit OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Integer32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The limit for the number of active connections that are
         allowed for this policy definition."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 11 }

   slapmPolicyStatsCountAccepts OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This counter is incremented when a policy action's
          Permission value is set to Accept and a session is accepted."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 12 }

   slapmPolicyStatsCountDenies OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This counter is incremented when a policy action's
          Permission value is set to Deny and a session is denied,
          or when a session is rejected due to a policy's
          connection limit (slapmPolicyStatsConnectLimit) being
          reached."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 13 }

   slapmPolicyStatsInDiscards OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This counter counts the number of in octets discarded."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 14 }

   slapmPolicyStatsOutDiscards OBJECT-TYPE

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 12]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This counter counts the number of out octets discarded."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 15 }

   slapmPolicyStatsInPackets OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This counter counts the number of in packets received
          that relate to this policy entry from IP."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 16 }

   slapmPolicyStatsOutPackets OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This counter counts the number of out octets sent
          by IP that relate to this policy entry."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 17 }

   slapmPolicyStatsInProfileOctets OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This counter counts the number of in octets that are
          determined to be within profile."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 18 }

   slapmPolicyStatsOutProfileOctets OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This counter counts the number of out octets that are
          determined to be within profile."
      ::= { slapmPolicyStatsEntry 19 }


   -- SLA Performance Monitoring Policy Monitor Table

   slapmPolicyMonitorTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF SlapmPolicyMonitorEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Provides a method of monitoring policies at a
          system."
     ::= { slapmTableObjects 2 }

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 13]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998


   slapmPolicyMonitorEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SlapmPolicyMonitorEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Defines an entry in the slapmPolicyMonitorTable. This table
          defines which policies should be monitored on a per policy
          action basis."
      INDEX {
             slapmPolicyMonitorOwnerIndex,
             slapmPolicyMonitorSystemAddress,
             slapmPolicyMonitorPolicyName,
             slapmPolicyMonitorTrafficProfileName
            }
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorTable 1 }

   SlapmPolicyMonitorEntry ::=
      SEQUENCE {
          slapmPolicyMonitorOwnerIndex              SnmpAdminString,
          slapmPolicyMonitorSystemAddress           OCTET STRING,
          slapmPolicyMonitorPolicyName              SlapmNameType,
          slapmPolicyMonitorTrafficProfileName      SlapmNameType,
          slapmPolicyMonitorControl                 BITS,
          slapmPolicyMonitorInterval                Integer32,
          slapmPolicyMonitorIntTime                 DateAndTime,
          slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentInRate           Gauge32,
          slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentOutRate          Gauge32,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateLow              Integer32,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateHigh             Integer32,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateHigh             Integer32,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateLow              Integer32,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayHigh            Integer32,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayLow             Integer32,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateNotAchievies     Counter32,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateExceeds          Counter32,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayExceeds         Counter32,
          slapmPolicyMonitorRowStatus               RowStatus
      }

   slapmPolicyMonitorOwnerIndex OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      SnmpAdminString (SIZE(0..16))
      MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "To facilitate the provisioning of access control by a security
         administrator using the View-Based Access Control Model (RFC 2275,
         VACM) for tables in which multiple users may need to independently
         create or modify entries, the initial index is used as an 'owner
         index'.  Such an initial index has a syntax of SnmpAdminString,
         and can thus be trivially mapped to a securityName or groupName
         as defined in VACM, in accordance with a security policy.

         All entries in that table belonging to a particular user will

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 14]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

         have the same value for this initial index.  For a given user's
         entries in a particular table, the object identifiers for the
         information in these entries will have the same subidentifiers
         (except for the 'column' subidentifier) up to the end of the
         encoded owner index. To configure VACM to permit access to this
         portion of the table, one would create vacmViewTreeFamilyTable
         entries with the value of vacmViewTreeFamilySubtree including the
         owner index portion, and vacmViewTreeFamilyMask 'wildcarding' the
         column subidentifier.  More elaborate configurations are possible."
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 1 }

   slapmPolicyMonitorSystemAddress OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      OCTET STRING (SIZE(0..16))
      MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "Address of a system that an Policy definition relates to.
         A zero length octet string can be used to indicate that
         only a single system is being represented.
         Otherwise, the length of the octet string should be
         4 for an ipv4 address and 16 for an ipv6 address."
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 2 }

   slapmPolicyMonitorPolicyName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      SlapmNameType
      MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "Policy name that this entry relates to."
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 3 }

   slapmPolicyMonitorTrafficProfileName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      SlapmNameType
      MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The corresponding Traffic Profile name."
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 4 }

   slapmPolicyMonitorControl OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      BITS {
                        monitorMinRate(0),
                        monitorMaxRate(1),
                        monitorMaxDelay(2),
                        enableTraps(3)
                       }
      MAX-ACCESS  read-create
      STATUS       current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The value of this object determines the type of monitoring
         that is applied to a policy/action pair.  The value of this
         object can't be changed once the table entry that it is a
         part of is activated via slapmPolicyMonitorRowStatus.


White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 15]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

         The enableTraps(3) BITS setting turns on notification
         generation.  By default this function is not enabled."
      DEFVAL   { { monitorMinRate, monitorMaxRate } }
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 5 }

   slapmPolicyMonitorInterval OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Integer32 (15..86400) -- 15 second min, 24 hour max
      UNITS       "seconds"
      MAX-ACCESS  read-create
      STATUS       current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The number of seconds that defines the sample period."
      DEFVAL   {20}    -- 20 seconds
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 6 }

   slapmPolicyMonitorIntTime OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      DateAndTime
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The timestamp for when the last interval ended."
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 7 }

   slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentInRate OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Gauge32
      UNITS       "kilobits per second"
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "Using the value of the corresponding slapmPolicyMonitorInterval,
         slapmPolicyStatsInOctets is sampled and then divided by
         slapmPolicyMonitorInterval to determine the current in transfer
         rate."
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 8 }

   slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentOutRate OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Gauge32
      UNITS       "kilobits per second"
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "Using the value of the corresponding slapmPolicyMonitorInterval,
         slapmPolicyStatsOutOctets is sampled and then divided by
         slapmPolicyMonitorInterval to determine the current out transfer
         rate."
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 9 }

   slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateLow OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Integer32
      UNITS       "kilobits per second"
      MAX-ACCESS  read-create
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The threshold for generating a slapmMinRateNotAchieved

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 16]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

         notification, signalling that a monitored minimum transfer
         rate has not been meet.  The objects slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentInRate
         and slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentOutRate are summed when compared
         to the value of this object.

         A slapmMinRateNotAchieved notification is not generated again
         for an slapmPolicyMonitorEntry until the minimum transfer rate
         exceeds slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateHigh (a slapmMinRateOkay
         notification is then transmitted) and then fails below
         slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateLow.  This behavior reduces the
         slapmMinRateNotAchieved notifications that are transmitted.

         A value of zero for this object is returned when the
         slapmPolicyMonitorControl monitorMinRate(0) is not
         enabled.  When enabled the default value for this object
         is the min rate value specified in the associated
         action definition minus 10%.  If the action definition
         doesn't have a min rate defined then there is no
         default for this object and a value MUST be specified
         prior to activating this entry when monitorMinRate(0)
         is selected.

         Note: The corresponding slapmPolicyMonitorControl
         BITS setting, enableTraps(3), MUST be selected in order
         for any notification relating to this entry to potentially
         be generated."
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 10 }

   slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateHigh OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Integer32
      UNITS       "kilobits per second"
      MAX-ACCESS  read-create
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The threshold for generating a slapmMinRateOkay notification,
         signalling that a monitored minimum transfer rate has increased
         to an acceptable level.

         A value of zero for this object is returned when the
         slapmPolicyMonitorControl monitorMinRate(0) is not
         enabled.  When enabled the default value for this object
         is the min rate value specified in the associated
         action definition plus 10%.  If the action definition
         doesn't have a min rate defined then there is no
         default for this object and a value MUST be specified
         prior to activating this entry when monitorMinRate(0)
         is selected.

         Note: The corresponding slapmPolicyMonitorControl
         BITS setting, enableTraps(3), MUST be selected in order
         for any notification relating to this entry to potentially
         be generated."
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 11 }


White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 17]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

   slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateHigh OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Integer32
      UNITS       "kilobits per second"
      MAX-ACCESS  read-create
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The threshold for generating a slapmMaxRateExceeded
         notification, signalling that a monitored maximum transfer
         rate has been exceeded. The objects slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentInRate
         and slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentOutRate are summed when compared
         to the value of this object.

         A slapmMaxRateExceeded notification is not generated again
         for an slapmPolicyMonitorEntry until the maximum transfer rate
         fails below slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateLow (a slapmMaxRateOkay
         notification is then transmitted) and then raises above
         slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateHigh.  This behavior reduces the
         slapmMaxRateExceeded notifications that are transmitted.

         A value of zero for this object is returned when the
         slapmPolicyMonitorControl monitorMaxRate(1) is not
         enabled.  When enabled the default value for this object
         is the max rate value specified in the associated
         action definition plus 10%.  If the action definition
         doesn't have a max rate defined then there is no
         default for this object and a value MUST be specified
         prior to activating this entry when monitorMaxRate(1)
         is selected.

         Note: The corresponding slapmPolicyMonitorControl
         BITS setting, enableTraps(3), MUST be selected in order
         for any notification relating to this entry to potentially
         be generated."
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 12 }

   slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateLow OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Integer32
      UNITS       "kilobits per second"
      MAX-ACCESS  read-create
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The threshold for generating a slapmMaxRateOkay notification,
         signalling that a monitored maximum transfer rate has fallen
         to an acceptable level.

         A value of zero for this object is returned when the
         slapmPolicyMonitorControl monitorMaxRate(1) is not
         enabled.  When enabled the default value for this object
         is the max rate value specified in the associated
         action definition minus 10%.  If the action definition
         doesn't have a max rate defined then there is no
         default for this object and a value MUST be specified
         prior to activating this entry when monitorMaxRate(1)
         is selected.

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 18]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998


         Note: The corresponding slapmPolicyMonitorControl
         BITS setting, enableTraps(3), MUST be selected in order
         for any notification relating to this entry to potentially
         be generated."
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 13 }

   slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayHigh OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Integer32
      UNITS       "milliseconds"
      MAX-ACCESS  read-create
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The threshold for generating a slapmMaxDelayExceeded
         notification, signalling that a monitored maximum delay
         rate has been exceeded.

         A slapmMaxDelayExceeded notification is not generated again
         for an slapmPolicyMonitorEntry until the maximum delay rate
         falls below slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayLow (a slapmMaxDelayOkay
         notification is then transmitted) and raises above
         slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayHigh.  This behavior reduces the
         slapmMaxDelayExceeded notifications that are transmitted.

         A value of zero for this object is returned when the
         slapmPolicyMonitorControl monitorMaxDelay(4) is not
         enabled.  When enabled the default value for this object
         is the max delay value specified in the associated
         action definition plus 10%.  If the action definition
         doesn't have a max delay defined then there is no
         default for this object and a value MUST be specified
         prior to activating this entry when monitorMaxDelay(4)
         is selected.

         Note: The corresponding slapmPolicyMonitorControl
         BITS setting, enableTraps(3), MUST be selected in order
         for any notification relating to this entry to potentially
         be generated."
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 14 }

   slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayLow OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Integer32
      UNITS       "milliseconds"
      MAX-ACCESS  read-create
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The threshold for generating a slapmMaxDelayOkay notification,
         signalling that a monitored maximum delay rate has fallen
         to an acceptable level.

         A value of zero for this object is returned when the
         slapmPolicyMonitorControl monitorMaxDelay(4) is not
         enabled.  When enabled the default value for this object
         is the max delay value specified in the associated

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 19]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

         action definition minus 10%.  If the action definition
         doesn't have a max delay defined then there is no
         default for this object and a value MUST be specified
         prior to activating this entry when monitorMaxDelay(4)
         is selected.

         Note: The corresponding slapmPolicyMonitorControl
         BITS setting, enableTraps(3), MUST be selected in order
         for any notification relating to this entry to potentially
         be generated."
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 15 }

   slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateNotAchievies OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The number of times that a minimum transfer rate was
          not achieved."
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 16 }

   slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateExceeds OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The number of times that a maximum transfer rate was
          exceeded."
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 17 }

   slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayExceeds OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The number of times that a maximum delay rate was
          exceeded."
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 18 }

   slapmPolicyMonitorRowStatus  OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX       RowStatus
      MAX-ACCESS   read-create
      STATUS       current
      DESCRIPTION
        "This object allows entries to be created and deleted
         in the slapmPolicyMonitorTable.  An entry in this table
         is deleted by setting this object to destroy(6)."
      ::= { slapmPolicyMonitorEntry 19 }


   -- TCP Connection Table Extensions

   slapmTcpConnTable OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF SlapmTcpConnEntry

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 20]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

       MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
       STATUS      current
       DESCRIPTION
            "Extends tcpConnTable to support SLA policies.
            This table doesn't augment the TCP connection
            table as defined in RFC2012, since the
            order of the addresses has been changed and
            the table has been structured to support ipv6
            addresses.

            The indexing for this table is designed to support
            the use of an SNMP GET-NEXT operation using only
            the remote address and remote port as a way for
            a management station to retrieve the table entries
            relating to a particular client."
       ::= { slapmTableObjects 3 }

   slapmTcpConnEntry OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX      SlapmTcpConnEntry
       MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
       STATUS      current
       DESCRIPTION
            "Describes a particular tcp connection entry.  This
            table does not have slapmPolicyStatsOwnerIndex as
            part of its indexing since this table's contents
            is intended to span multiple users."
       INDEX {
               slapmTcpConnRemAddress,
               slapmTcpConnRemPort,
               slapmTcpConnLocalAddress,
               slapmTcpConnLocalPort
             }
       ::= { slapmTcpConnTable 1 }

   SlapmTcpConnEntry ::=
       SEQUENCE {
            slapmTcpConnRemAddress          OCTET STRING,
            slapmTcpConnRemPort             Integer32,
            slapmTcpConnLocalAddress        OCTET STRING,
            slapmTcpConnLocalPort           Integer32,
            slapmTcpConnSystemAddress       OCTET STRING,
            slapmTcpConnPolicyName          SlapmNameType,
            slapmTcpConnTrafficProfileName  SlapmNameType,
            slapmTcpConnLastActivity        TimeTicks,
            slapmTcpConnInOctets            Counter32,
            slapmTcpConnOutOctets           Counter32,
            slapmTcpConnOutBufferedOctets   Counter32,
            slapmTcpConnInBufferedOctets    Counter32,
            slapmTcpConnReXmts              Counter32,
            slapmTcpConnRoundTripTime       Integer32,
            slapmTcpConnRoundTripVariance   Integer32,
            slapmTcpConnInSegments          Counter32,
            slapmTcpConnOutSegments         Counter32,
            slapmTcpConnApplName            SlapmNameType

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 21]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

         }

   slapmTcpConnRemAddress OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      OCTET STRING (SIZE(4 | 16))
      MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "Indicate the remote address of a TCP connection.
         A remote address can be either an ipv4 address in which
         case 4 octets are required or as an ipv6 address that
         requires 16 octets."
      ::= { slapmTcpConnEntry 1 }

   slapmTcpConnRemPort OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Integer32(0..65535)
      MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "Indicate the remote port of a TCP connection."
      ::= { slapmTcpConnEntry 2 }

   slapmTcpConnLocalAddress OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      OCTET STRING (SIZE(4 | 16))
      MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "Indicate the local address of a TCP connection.
         A local address can be either an ipv4 address in which
         case 4 octets are required or as an ipv6 address that
         requires 16 octets."
      ::= { slapmTcpConnEntry 3 }

   slapmTcpConnLocalPort OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Integer32(0..65535)
      MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "Indicate the local port of a TCP connection."
      ::= { slapmTcpConnEntry 4 }

   slapmTcpConnPolicyName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      SlapmNameType
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "Policy name that this entry relates to."
      ::= { slapmTcpConnEntry 5 }

   slapmTcpConnSystemAddress OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      OCTET STRING (SIZE(0..16))
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "Address of a system that an Policy definition relates to.

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 22]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

         A zero length octet string can be used to indicate that
         only a single system is being represented.
         Otherwise, the length of the octet string should be
         4 for an ipv4 address and 16 for an ipv6 address."
      ::= { slapmTcpConnEntry 6 }

   slapmTcpConnTrafficProfileName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      SlapmNameType
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "The corresponding traffic profile name."
      ::= { slapmTcpConnEntry 7 }

   slapmTcpConnLastActivity OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX      TimeTicks
       MAX-ACCESS  read-only
       STATUS      current
       DESCRIPTION
           "The number of 100ths of seconds  since  this  entry
           was last used."
       DEFVAL  { 0 }
       ::= { slapmTcpConnEntry 8 }

   slapmTcpConnInOctets OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX      Counter32
       MAX-ACCESS  read-only
       STATUS      current
       DESCRIPTION
           "The number of octets received from IP for this
           connection."
       ::= { slapmTcpConnEntry 9 }

   slapmTcpConnOutOctets OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX      Counter32
       MAX-ACCESS  read-only
       STATUS      current
       DESCRIPTION
           "The number of octets sent to IP for this connection."
       ::= { slapmTcpConnEntry 10 }

   slapmTcpConnOutBufferedOctets OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX      Counter32
       MAX-ACCESS  read-only
       STATUS      current
       DESCRIPTION
           "Number of outgoing octets buffered"
       ::= { slapmTcpConnEntry 11 }

   slapmTcpConnInBufferedOctets OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX      Counter32
       MAX-ACCESS  read-only
       STATUS      current
       DESCRIPTION

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 23]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

           "Number of incoming octets buffered"
       ::= { slapmTcpConnEntry 12 }

   slapmTcpConnReXmts OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX      Counter32
       MAX-ACCESS  read-only
       STATUS      current
       DESCRIPTION
           "Number of retransmissions"
       ::= { slapmTcpConnEntry 13 }

   slapmTcpConnRoundTripTime OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX       Integer32
       UNITS        "milliseconds"
       MAX-ACCESS   read-only
       STATUS       current
       DESCRIPTION
           "The amount of time that has elapsed, measured in
           milliseconds, from when the last TCP segment was
           transmitted by the TCP Stack until the ACK was
           received."
       ::= { slapmTcpConnEntry 14 }

   slapmTcpConnRoundTripVariance OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX       Integer32
       MAX-ACCESS   read-only
       STATUS       current
       DESCRIPTION
           "Round trip time variance."
       ::= { slapmTcpConnEntry 15 }

   slapmTcpConnInSegments OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX       Counter32
       MAX-ACCESS   read-only
       STATUS       current
       DESCRIPTION
           "The number of TCP in segments for this connections."
       ::= { slapmTcpConnEntry 16 }

   slapmTcpConnOutSegments OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX       Counter32
       MAX-ACCESS   read-only
       STATUS       current
       DESCRIPTION
           "The number of TCP out segments for this connections."
       ::= { slapmTcpConnEntry 17 }

   slapmTcpConnApplName OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX       SlapmNameType
       MAX-ACCESS   read-only
       STATUS       current
       DESCRIPTION
           "The application name associated with this entry if known,
           otherwise a zero-length octet string is returned as the value

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 24]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

           of this object."
       ::= { slapmTcpConnEntry 18 }


   -- udpTable extension

   slapmUdpTable OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF SlapmUdpEntry
       MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
       STATUS       current
       DESCRIPTION
           "Extends udp table to support SLA policies.  This
           table doesn't use the AUGMENT option to define
           an extension to the udp listen table as defined
           in RFC 2013 since the table has been structured to
           support ipv6 addresses."
       ::= { slapmTableObjects 4 }

   slapmUdpEntry OBJECT-TYPE
       SYNTAX       SlapmUdpEntry
       MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
       STATUS       current
       DESCRIPTION
           "Describes a particular udp entry."
       INDEX {
               slapmUdpLocalAddress,
               slapmUdpLocalPort
             }
       ::= { slapmUdpTable 1 }

    SlapmUdpEntry ::=
       SEQUENCE
            {
               slapmUdpLocalAddress        OCTET STRING,
               slapmUdpLocalPort           Integer32,
               slapmUdpSystemAddress       OCTET STRING,
               slapmUdpPolicyName          SlapmNameType,
               slapmUdpTrafficProfileName  SlapmNameType,
               slapmUdpLastAct             TimeTicks,
               slapmUdpInDgrams            Counter32,
               slapmUdpInOctets            Counter32,
               slapmUdpOutDgrams           Counter32,
               slapmUdpOutOctets           Counter32,
               slapmUdpApplName            SlapmNameType
            }

   slapmUdpLocalAddress OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      OCTET STRING (SIZE(4 | 16))
      MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "Indicate the local address of a udp listener.
         A local address can be either an ipv4 address in which
         case 4 octets are required or as an ipv6 address that

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 25]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

         requires 16 octets."
      ::= { slapmUdpEntry 1 }

   slapmUdpLocalPort OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Integer32(0..65535)
      MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "Indicate the local port of a udp listener."
      ::= { slapmUdpEntry 2 }

   slapmUdpSystemAddress OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      OCTET STRING (SIZE(0..16))
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         "Address of a system that an Policy definition relates to.
         A zero length octet string can be used to indicate that
         only a single system is being represented.
         Otherwise, the length of the octet string should be
         4 for an ipv4 address and 16 for an ipv6 address."
      ::= { slapmUdpEntry 3 }

   slapmUdpPolicyName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      SlapmNameType
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         ""
      ::= { slapmUdpEntry 4 }

   slapmUdpTrafficProfileName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      SlapmNameType
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
         ""
      ::= { slapmUdpEntry 5 }

   slapmUdpLastAct OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      TimeTicks
      UNITS       "100s of seconds"
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The amount of time that has elapsed since the corresponding
          entry has had any activity. Measured in hundreds of
          seconds."
      ::= { slapmUdpEntry 6 }

   slapmUdpInDgrams OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 26]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of received datagrams."
      ::= { slapmUdpEntry 7 }

   slapmUdpInOctets OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of octets received."
      ::= { slapmUdpEntry 8 }

   slapmUdpOutDgrams OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of send datagrams."
      ::= { slapmUdpEntry 9 }

   slapmUdpOutOctets OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      Counter32
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Number of octets sent."
      ::= { slapmUdpEntry 10 }

   slapmUdpApplName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX      SlapmNameType
      MAX-ACCESS  read-only
      STATUS      current
      DESCRIPTION
           "The application name associated with this entry if known,
           otherwise a zero-length octet string is returned as the value
           of this object."
      ::= { slapmUdpEntry 11 }


   -- Notifications

   slapmMinRateNotAchieved NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      OBJECTS {
          slapmPolicyMonitorIntTime,
          slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentInRate,
          slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentOutRate,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateNotAchievies,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateExceeds,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayExceeds
      }
      STATUS  current
      DESCRIPTION
        "This notification is generated when the minimum transfer
        rate is not achieved with respect to a low threshold.

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 27]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998


         Note: The corresponding slapmPolicyMonitorControl
         BITS setting, enableTraps(3), MUST be selected in order
         for this notification to potentially be generated."
      ::= { slapmNotifications 1 }

   slapmMinRateOkay NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      OBJECTS {
          slapmPolicyMonitorIntTime,
          slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentInRate,
          slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentOutRate,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateNotAchievies,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateExceeds,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayExceeds
      }
      STATUS  current
      DESCRIPTION
        "This notification is generated when the minimum transfer
        rate has increased to an acceptable level.

         Note: The corresponding slapmPolicyMonitorControl
         BITS setting, enableTraps(3), MUST be selected in order
         for this notification to potentially be generated."
      ::= { slapmNotifications 2 }

   slapmMaxRateExceeded NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      OBJECTS {
          slapmPolicyMonitorIntTime,
          slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentInRate,
          slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentOutRate,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateNotAchievies,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateExceeds,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayExceeds
      }
      STATUS  current
      DESCRIPTION
        "This notification is generated when the maximum transfer
        rate has been exceeded with respect to a high threshold.

         Note: The corresponding slapmPolicyMonitorControl
         BITS setting, enableTraps(3), MUST be selected in order
         for this notification to potentially be generated."
      ::= { slapmNotifications 3 }

   slapmMaxRateOkay NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      OBJECTS {
          slapmPolicyMonitorIntTime,
          slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentInRate,
          slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentOutRate,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateNotAchievies,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateExceeds,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayExceeds
      }
      STATUS  current

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 28]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

      DESCRIPTION
        "This notification is generated when the maximum transfer
        rate has fallen to an acceptable level.

         Note: The corresponding slapmPolicyMonitorControl
         BITS setting, enableTraps(3), MUST be selected in order
         for this notification to potentially be generated."
      ::= { slapmNotifications 4 }

   slapmMaxDelayExceeded NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      OBJECTS {
          slapmPolicyMonitorIntTime,
          slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentInRate,
          slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentOutRate,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateNotAchievies,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateExceeds,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayExceeds
      }
      STATUS  current
      DESCRIPTION
        "This notification is generated when the maximum delay
        rate has been exceeded with respect to a high threshold.

         Note: The corresponding slapmPolicyMonitorControl
         BITS setting, enableTraps(3), MUST be selected in order
         for this notification to potentially be generated."
      ::= { slapmNotifications 5 }

   slapmMaxDelayOkay NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      OBJECTS {
          slapmPolicyMonitorIntTime,
          slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentInRate,
          slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentOutRate,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateNotAchievies,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateExceeds,
          slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayExceeds
      }
      STATUS  current
      DESCRIPTION
        "This notification is generated when the maximum delay
        rate has fallen to an acceptable level.

         Note: The corresponding slapmPolicyMonitorControl
         BITS setting, enableTraps(3), MUST be selected in order
         for this notification to potentially be generated."
      ::= { slapmNotifications 6 }

   slapmPolicyDeleteNeeded NOTIFICATION-TYPE
      OBJECTS {
          slapmPolicyStatsOperStatus
      }
      STATUS  current
      DESCRIPTION
        "This notification is generated when a slapmPolicyStatsEntry

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 29]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

        via its slapmPolicyStatsOperStatus object has transitioned into
        the deleted(3) state and can't be deleted because other
        tables have dependent entries.

         Note: The corresponding slapmPolicyMonitorControl
         BITS setting, enableTraps(3), MUST be selected in order
         for this notification to potentially be generated."
      ::= { slapmNotifications 7 }


   ---------------------------------------------------------------------
   -- Conformance information
   -- Compliance statements
   ---------------------------------------------------------------------

   slapmCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { slapmConformance 1 }
   slapmGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { slapmConformance 2 }

   ---------------------------------------------------------------------
   -- Compliance statements
   ---------------------------------------------------------------------

   slapmCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
      STATUS  current
      DESCRIPTION
              "The compliance statement for the SLAPM-MIB."
      MODULE  -- this module
          MANDATORY-GROUPS {
                              slapmBaseGroup,
                              slapmNotGroup
                           }
          GROUP slapmEndSystemGroup
          DESCRIPTION
              "The contents of this group is required by end-system
              implementations."
          GROUP slapmOptionalGroup
          DESCRIPTION
              "The contents of this group is optional, since not all
              systems are capable of generating the values associated
              with these objects."
      ::= { slapmCompliances 1 }

   ---------------------------------------------------------------------
   -- MIB groupings
   ---------------------------------------------------------------------

   slapmBaseGroup OBJECT-GROUP
     OBJECTS {
               slapmSpinLock,
               slapmPolicyCountQueries,
               slapmPolicyCountAccesses,
               slapmPolicyCountSuccessAccesses,
               slapmPolicyCountNotFounds,
               slapmPolicyPurgeTime,

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 30]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

               slapmPolicyStatsOperStatus,
               slapmPolicyStatsActiveConns,
               slapmPolicyStatsFirstActivated,
               slapmPolicyStatsLastMapping,
               slapmPolicyStatsInOctets,
               slapmPolicyStatsOutOctets,
               slapmPolicyStatsConnectionLimit,
               slapmPolicyStatsTotalConns,
               slapmPolicyStatsCountAccepts,
               slapmPolicyStatsCountDenies,
               slapmPolicyStatsInDiscards,
               slapmPolicyStatsOutDiscards,
               slapmPolicyStatsInPackets,
               slapmPolicyStatsOutPackets,
               slapmPolicyMonitorControl,
               slapmPolicyMonitorInterval,
               slapmPolicyMonitorIntTime,
               slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentInRate,
               slapmPolicyMonitorCurrentOutRate,
               slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateLow,
               slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateHigh,
               slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateHigh,
               slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateLow,
               slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayHigh,
               slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayLow,
               slapmPolicyMonitorMinRateNotAchievies,
               slapmPolicyMonitorMaxRateExceeds,
               slapmPolicyMonitorMaxDelayExceeds,
               slapmPolicyMonitorRowStatus
              }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The group of objects defined by this MIB that are
        required for all implementations to be compliant."
    ::= { slapmGroups 1 }

   slapmOptionalGroup OBJECT-GROUP
     OBJECTS {
               slapmPolicyStatsInProfileOctets,
               slapmPolicyStatsOutProfileOctets
             }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The group of objects defined by this MIB that are
        optional."
    ::= { slapmGroups 2 }

   slapmEndSystemGroup OBJECT-GROUP
     OBJECTS {
               slapmTcpConnSystemAddress,
               slapmTcpConnPolicyName,
               slapmTcpConnTrafficProfileName,
               slapmTcpConnLastActivity,
               slapmTcpConnInOctets,

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 31]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

               slapmTcpConnOutOctets,
               slapmTcpConnOutBufferedOctets,
               slapmTcpConnInBufferedOctets,
               slapmTcpConnReXmts,
               slapmTcpConnRoundTripTime,
               slapmTcpConnRoundTripVariance,
               slapmTcpConnInSegments,
               slapmTcpConnOutSegments,
               slapmTcpConnApplName,
               slapmUdpSystemAddress,
               slapmUdpPolicyName,
               slapmUdpTrafficProfileName,
               slapmUdpLastAct,
               slapmUdpInDgrams,
               slapmUdpInOctets,
               slapmUdpOutDgrams,
               slapmUdpOutOctets,
               slapmUdpApplName
             }
     STATUS  current
     DESCRIPTION
         "The group of objects defined by this MIB that are
         required for end system implementations."
     ::= { slapmGroups 3 }

   slapmNotGroup NOTIFICATION-GROUP
     NOTIFICATIONS {
               slapmMinRateNotAchieved,
               slapmMinRateOkay,
               slapmMaxRateExceeded,
               slapmMaxRateOkay,
               slapmMaxDelayExceeded,
               slapmMaxDelayOkay,
               slapmPolicyDeleteNeeded
             }
     STATUS  current
     DESCRIPTION
         "The group of notifications defined by this MIB that MUST
         be implemented."
     ::= { slapmGroups 4 }

  END


5.0  Security Considerations

Certain management information defined in this MIB may be considered
sensitive in some network environments.  Therefore, authentication of
received SNMP requests and controlled access to management information
SHOULD be employed in such environments.  The method for this
authentication is a function of the SNMP Administrative Framework, and
has not been expanded by this MIB.



White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 32]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

It is RECOMMENDED that creation of entries in the
slapmPolicyMonitorTable not be allowed in insecure environments.


6.0  Intellectual Property

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed to pertain
to the implementation or use of the technology described in this
document or the extent to which any license under such rights might or
might not be available; neither does it represent that it has made any
effort to identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's
procedures with respect to rights in standards-track and
standards-related documentation can be found in BCP-11.  Copies of
claims of rights made available for publication and any assurances of
licenses to be made available, or the result of an attempt made to
obtain a general license or permission for the use of such proprietary
rights by implementers or users of this specification can be obtained
from the IETF Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights
which may cover technology that may be required to practice this
standard.  Please address the information to the IETF Executive
Director.


7.0  Acknowledgments

This document is a product of the IETF.


8.0  References

[1]  Case, J., M. Fedor, M. Schoffstall, J. Davin, "Simple Network
     Management Protocol", RFC 1157, SNMP Research, Performance Systems
     International, MIT Laboratory for Computer Science, May 1990.

[2]  McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II", STD 17,
     RFC 1213, Hughes LAN Systems, Performance Systems International,
     March 1991.

[3]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser S., "Structure
     of Management Information for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902, January 1996.

[4]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Textual
     Conventions for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1903, January 1996.

[5]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S.,
     "Conformance Statements for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1904, January 1996.

White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 33]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

[6]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Protocol
     Operations for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

[7]  Harrington D., Presuhn, R., Wijnen, B., "An Architecture for
     Describing SNMP Management Frameworks", RFC 2271, Cabletron
     Systems, BMC Software, Inc., IBM T.J. Watson Research, January
     1998.

[8]  Harrington D., Presuhn, R., Wijnen, B., "Message Processing and
     Dispatching for the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)", RFC
     2272, Cabletron Systems, BMC Software, Inc., IBM T.J. Watson
     Research, January 1998.

[9]  Levi D., Meyer P., Stewart, B., "SNMPv3 Applications", RFC 2273,
     SNMP Research, Inc., Secure Computing Corporation, Cisco Systems,
     January 1998.

[10] Blumenthal, U., Wijnen, B., "User-based Security Model (USM) for
     version 3 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv3)", RFC
     2274, IBM T. J. Watson Research, January 1998.

[11] Wijnen, B., Presuhn, R., McCloghrie, K., "View-based Access Control
     Model (VACM) for the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)",
     RFC 2275, IBM T.J. Watson Research, BMC Software, Inc., Cisco
     Systems, Inc., January 1998.

[12] Hovey, R., and S. Bradner, "The Organizations Involved in the IETF
     Standards Process", BCP 11, RFC 2028, October 1996.

[13] Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
     Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

[14] Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Structure and Identification of
     Management Information for TCP/IP-based Internets", RFC 1155,
     Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems, May 1990.

[15] Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Concise MIB Definitions", RFC 1212,
     Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems, March 1991.

[16] M. Rose, "A Convention for Defining Traps for use with the SNMP",
     RFC 1215, Performance Systems International, March 1991.

[17] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser,
     "Introduction to Community-based SNMPv2", RFC 1901, SNMP Research,
     Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.,
     International Network Services, January 1996.

[18] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Transport
     Mappings for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1906, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.


White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 34]



Internet Draft                 SLAPM-MIB              September 15, 1998

[19] "Schema for Service Level Administration of Differentiated Services
     and Integrated Services in Networks",
     <draft-ellesson-sla-schema-02.txt>, June 1, 1998.

[20] McCloghrie, K. and Bierman, A., "Entity MIB using SMIv2", RFC 2037,
     October 1996.


9.0  Author's Address

  Kenneth D. White
  Dept. BRQA/Bldg. 501/G114
  IBM Corporation
  P.O.Box 12195
  3039 Cornwallis
  Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA
  E-mail: kennethw@vnet.ibm.com


10.0  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1997).  All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS
IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK
FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT
INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.










White, Kenneth           Expires December 1998                 [Page 35]



