





Network Working Group                                        Kim Kinnear
INTERNET DRAFT                                                Mark Stapp
                                                         Richard Johnson
                                                          Jay Kumarasamy
                                                           Cisco Systems

                                                           November 2002
                                                        Expires May 2003


                       VPN Identifier sub-option
                 for the Relay Agent Information Option
                  <draft-ietf-dhc-agent-vpn-id-02.txt>

Status of this Memo

   This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with
   all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2002). All Rights Reserved.

Abstract

   In some environments, a relay agent resides in a network element
   which also has access to one or more VPNs.  If one DHCP server wishes
   to offer service to DHCP clients on those different VPNs the DHCP
   server needs to know the VPN on which each client resides.  The vpn-
   id sub-option of the relay-agent-information option is used by the
   relay agent to tell the DHCP server the VPN for every DHCP request it
   passes on to the DHCP server, and is also used to properly forward



Kinnear, et. al.            Expires May 2003                    [Page 1]

Internet Draft             VPN-ID sub-option               November 2002


   any DHCP reply that the DHCP server sends back to the relay agent.


1.  Introduction

   There exist situations where there are multiple VPNs serviced by one
   or more network elements which also contain relay agents.   These
   VPNs contain DHCP clients, and there is a desire to allow one DHCP
   server to supply the full range of DHCP services to these DHCP
   clients.

   The network element which contains the relay agent typically is also
   the network element which knows about the VPN association of the DHCP
   client and could include this information in the relay-agent-
   information option in the client's DHCP requests.  This document
   defines a sub-option for the relay-agent-information option which
   contains the vpn-id, and which allows the relay agent to communicate
   the VPN association to the DHCP server.

   When the DHCP server sends its response to the relay agent for for-
   warding back to the DHCP client, the relay agent will also need to
   use the vpn-id sub-option to determine to which VPN to send the DHCP
   response.

   This sub-option can also be used by the DHCP server to inform a relay
   agent that a particular DHCP client is associated with a particular
   VPN by sending the vpn-id sub-option to the relay agent in the
   relay-agent-information option back to the relay agent.


   Consider the following architecture:


          +--------+         +---------------+
          |  DHCP  |     IP x|  Relay Agent  | IP z
          | Server |-.......-|     and       +---+-------+-------+
          +--------+         |  VPN manager  |   |       |       |
                             +---+-----------+   |       |       |
                                 |IP y        +-----+ +--+--+ +--+--+
                               +-+-----+      |Host1| |Host2| |Host3|
                               |       |      +-----+ +-----+ +-----+
                               |       |
                            +-----+ +--+--+         VPN 2
                            |Host1| |Host2|
                            +-----+ +-----+

                                VPN 1




Kinnear, et. al.            Expires May 2003                    [Page 2]

Internet Draft             VPN-ID sub-option               November 2002


   In this architecture, the relay agent knows the VPN for each of the
   DHCP clients, and inserts that information in the vpn-id sub-option
   in every DHCP request it forwards onto the DHCP server.

   When the DHCP server copies over the relay-agent-information option
   from the request to the reply packet, it will copy over the vpn-id
   sub-option as well.

   When the relay agent receives a DHCP reply packet from the server
   with a vpn-id sub-option, it will forward the packet onto the proper
   VPN based on the value of the vpn-id sub-option.


2.

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 [RFC 2119].

   This document uses the following terms:

      o "DHCP client"

        A DHCP client is an Internet host using DHCP to obtain confi-
        guration parameters such as a network address.

      o "DHCP relay agent"

        A DHCP relay agent is a third-party agent that transfers BOOTP
        and DHCP messages between clients and servers residing on dif-
        ferent subnets, per [RFC 951] and [RFC 1542].

      o "DHCP server"

        A DHCP server is an Internet host that returns configuration
        parameters to DHCP clients.

      o "downstream"

        Downstream is the direction from the access concentrator towards
        the subscriber.

      o "upstream"

        Upstream is the direction from the subscriber towards the access
        concentrator.

      o "VPN"



Kinnear, et. al.            Expires May 2003                    [Page 3]

Internet Draft             VPN-ID sub-option               November 2002


        Virtual private network.  A network which appears to the client
        to be a private network.

      o "VPN Identifier"

        The VPN-ID is defined by [RFC2685] to be a sequence of 14 hex
        digits.


3.  VPN identifier sub-option definition

   The vpn-id sub-option MAY be used by any DHCP relay agent which
   desires to specify the VPN from which a DHCP client request was sent.

   The vpn-id sub-option contains a generalized VPN identifier.

   The format of the option is:



           SubOpt   Len   Type    VPN identifier
          +------+------+------+------+------+------+---
          | TBD  |   n  |  t   |  id1 |  id2 |  id3 | ...
          +------+------+------+------+------+------+---

          Type:    0      NVT ASCII VPN identifier
                   1      RFC2685 VPN-ID
                   2-255  Not Allowed



   There are two types of identifiers which can be placed in the vpn-id
   sub-option.  The first type of identifier which can be placed in the
   vpn-id sub-option is an NVT ASCII string.  It MUST NOT be terminated
   with a zero byte.

   The second type of identifier which can be placed in the vpn-id sub-
   option is an RFC2685 VPN-ID [RFC 2685], which is typically 14 hex
   digits in length (though it can be any length as far as the vpn-id
   sub-option is concerned).

   A relay agent which recieves a DHCP request from a DHCP client on a
   VPN SHOULD include a vpn-id sub-option in the relay-agent-information
   option that it inserts in the DHCP packet prior to forwarding it on
   to the DHCP server.

   The value placed in the vpn-id sub-option SHOULD be sufficient for
   the relay agent to properly route any DHCP reply packet returned from



Kinnear, et. al.            Expires May 2003                    [Page 4]

Internet Draft             VPN-ID sub-option               November 2002


   the DHCP server to the DHCP client for which it is destined.  Servers
   supporting this sub-option MUST return an identical copy of the sub-
   option in the relay-agent-info option to any relay-agent that sends
   it.

   In the event that a vpn-id option and a vpn-id sub-option are both
   received in a particular DHCP client packet, the information from the
   vpn-id sub-option MUST be used in preference to the information in
   the vpn-id option.

   Relay agents which include this sub-option when forwarding DHCP
   client requests MUST discard DHCPOFFER or DHCPACK packets that do not
   contain this sub-option in their associated relay-agent-info options.

   In some cases, a DHCP server may use the vpn-id sub-option to inform
   a relay agent that a particular DHCP client is associated with a par-
   ticular VPN.  It does this by sending the vpn-id sub-option with the
   appropriate information to the relay agent in the relay-agent-
   information option.  If the relay agent is unable to honor the DHCP
   server's requirement to place the DHCP client into that VPN it MUST
   drop the packet and not send it back to the DHCP client.

4.  Security

   Message authentication in DHCP for intradomain use where the out-of-
   band exchange of a shared secret is feasible is defined in [RFC
   3118].  Potential exposures to attack are discussed in section 7 of
   the DHCP protocol specification in [RFC 2131].

   The vpn-id sub-option could be used by a client in order to obtain an
   IP address from a VPN other than the one on which it resides.  This
   attack can be partially prevented by the relay agent not forwarding
   any DHCP packet which already contains a relay-agent-information
   option.

   Any program which unicasts a DHCP packet to the DHCP server with a
   relay-agent-information option in it with a vpn-id for a different
   VPN would cause the DHCP server to allocate an address from that dif-
   ferent VPN, but since the DHCP server cannot (in general) communicate
   directly back to the program that sent in the malicious DHCP packet,
   the entire cycle of creating a lease will not be completed.  Cer-
   tainly many leases could be offered, which would result in a form of
   address-pool exhaustion.

   Servers that implement the vpn-id sub-option MUST by default disable
   use of the feature; it must specifically be enabled through confi-
   guration.  Moreover, a server SHOULD provide the ability to selec-
   tively enable use of the feature under restricted conditions, e.g.,



Kinnear, et. al.            Expires May 2003                    [Page 5]

Internet Draft             VPN-ID sub-option               November 2002


   by enabling use of the option only from explicitly configured
   client-ids, enabling its use only by clients on a particular subnet,
   or restricting the VPNs from which addresses may be requested.

5.  IANA Considerations

   IANA has assigned the value of TBD for the VPN Identifier sub-option
   from the DHCP Relay Agent Sub-options space [RFC 3046] for the VPN
   Identifier sub-option defined in Section 3.

   This document defines a number space for the type byte of the vpn-id
   sub-option.  Certain allowable values for this byte are defined in
   this specification (see Section 3).  New values may only be defined
   by IETF Consensus, as described in [RFC 2434].  Basically, this means
   that they are defined by RFCs approved by the IESG.

   Moreover, any changes or additions to the type byte codes MUST be
   made concurrently in the type byte codes of the vpn-id option.  The
   type bytes and data formats of the vpn-id option and vpn-id sub-
   option MUST always be identical.

6.  Acknowledgments

   None (yet).


7.  References


   [RFC 2119] Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
      Requirement Levels", RFC 2119, March 1997.

   [RFC 2131] Droms, R., "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol", RFC
      2131, March 1997.

   [RFC 2132] Alexander, S.,  Droms, R., "DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor
      Extensions", Internet RFC 2132, March 1997.

   [RFC 2685] Fox, B., Gleeson, B., "Virtual Private Networks Identif-
      ier", Internet RFC 2685, September 1999.

   [RFC 3046] Patrick, M., "DHCP Relay Agent Information Option", RFC
      3046, January 2001.

   [RFC 3118] Droms, R. "Authentication for DHCP Messages", RFC 3118,
      June 2001.





Kinnear, et. al.            Expires May 2003                    [Page 6]

Internet Draft             VPN-ID sub-option               November 2002


8.  Author's information


      Kim Kinnear
      Mark Stapp
      Cisco Systems
      250 Apollo Drive
      Chelmsford, MA  01824

      Phone: (978) 497-8000

      EMail: kkinnear@cisco.com
             mjs@cisco.com


      Jay Kumarasamy
      Richard Johnson
      Cisco Systems
      170 W. Tasman Dr.
      San Jose, CA 95134

      Phone: (408) 526-4000

      EMail: jayk@cisco.com
             raj@cisco.com



9.  Intellectual Property Statement

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any intel-
lectual property or other rights that might be claimed to  pertain to
the implementation or use of the technology described in this document
or the extent to which any license under such rights might or might not
be available; neither does it represent that it has made any effort to
identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's procedures with
respect to rights in standards-track and standards-related documentation
can be found in BCP-11.  Copies of claims of rights made available for
publication and any assurances of licenses to be made available, or the
result of an attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for
the use of such proprietary rights by implementors or users of this
specification can be obtained from the IETF Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights
which may cover technology that may be required to practice this stan-
dard.  Please address the information to the IETF Executive Director.




Kinnear, et. al.            Expires May 2003                    [Page 7]

Internet Draft             VPN-ID sub-option               November 2002


10.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2002). All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to oth-
ers, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and dis-
tributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind, provided
that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included on all
such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself may not
be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice or
references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the  purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet Stan-
dards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS
IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK
FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT
INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FIT-
NESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

























Kinnear, et. al.            Expires May 2003                    [Page 8]
