
GeoPriv                                                    Marc Linsner
Internet-Draft                                            Cisco Systems
Expires: January 8, 2009                                   July 7, 2008 
Intended Status: Informational                           


              The Location "On Behalf Of" Model is Broken 
                     draft-linsner-geopriv-obo-00.txt

Status of this Memo

   By submitting this Internet-Draft, each author represents that any
   applicable patent or other IPR claims of which he or she is aware
   have been or will be disclosed, and any of which he or she becomes
   aware will be disclosed, in accordance with Section 6 of BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six 
   months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents
   at any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as 
   reference material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt.

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

   This Internet-Draft will expire on January 8, 2009.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The IETF Trust (2008).


Abstract

   There is proposed solution submitted to the GeoPriv work group that 
outlines the need for a location recipient to obtain the location of a 
target without the target's knowledge.  The scenario is described as 
supporting a legacy device (a device lacking support for location) for 
the purposes of utilizing location when the legacy device summons 
emergency help (by dialing 911/112, etc.).  Below is a discussion of 
the of the general topic of discovering location via 'On Behalf Of' or 
OBO. 






Linsner                 Expires January 8, 2008                [Page 1]
Internet-Draft           Location OBO Broken                 July 2008




Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  2  
   2.  Security considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
   3.  IANA considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
   4.  Acknowledgments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
   5.  References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
       5.1.  Normative References
       Authors' Addresses
       Full Copyright Statement and Intellectual Property


   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 [1].


1.  Introduction 


To create a mechanism whereby a seeker discovering a target's location 
without the target's knowledge or consent goes against the intentions 
of GeoPriv requirements, RFC3693 (1).  GeoPriv was created for the 
purpose to design a location architecture such that an end-user is 
assured that his/her location information has privacy protections.  
Creating a mechanism whereby a seeker can ask an entity outside the 
control of the target goes against the reason GeoPriv was created.


The Internet has enjoyed great success in its relatively short life.  
One major contributing factor to its success is the separation of data 
link (access), network, and application layers when viewed against the 
OSI model.  This architecture allows applications to succeed without 
knowledge at or of the access layer.  Location, or knowledge of 
location, is an unusual circumstance such that a good percentage of the 
time, the knowledge of location is contained at the access layer.  The 
difficulty with location information is the extraction from the access 
layer.  It is natural to desire to build a mechanism that allows an 
application provider to discover and query an access provider for a 
host's location information. But such a mechanism destroys an 
underpinning to the Internets success.  To circumvent the architecture 
that has contributed to the success of the Internet by creating a 
solution where the application provider must communicate with the 
access provider is simply regression back to legacy networking.

GeoPriv needs to continue to support the Internet model whereby 
applications don't depend on communication with the access layer for 
its success.

   

Linsner                 Expires January 8, 2008                [Page 2]
Internet-Draft             Location OBO Broken               July 2008


2.  Security considerations

     None.

   


3.  IANA considerations

   This document does not have any IANA actions.


4.  Acknowledgments

   None


5.  References

5.1.  Normative References

 [RFC3693] J. Cuellar, J. Morris, D. Mulligan, J. Peterson. J. Polk,
           "Geopriv Requirements", RFC 3693, February 2004



Authors' Addresses

   Marc Linsner
   Marco Island, FL, USA
   +1-239-272-2105

   mailto: marc.linsner@cisco.com


Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The IETF Trust (2008).

   This document is subject to the rights, licenses and restrictions
   contained in BCP 78, and except as set forth therein, the authors
   retain all their rights.

   This document and the information contained herein are provided on 
   an "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE 
   REPRESENTS OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY, THE 
   IETF TRUST AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL 
   WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY 
   WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE 
   ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS 
   FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


Linsner                 Expires January 8, 2008                [Page 3]
Internet-Draft             Location OBO Broken              July 2008

Intellectual Property

   The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
   Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed 
   to pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described 
   in this document or the extent to which any license under such 
   rights might or might not be available; nor does it represent that 
   it has made any independent effort to identify any such rights.  
   Information on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC 
   documents can be found in BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any 
   assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an 
   attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use 
   of such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this 
   specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository 
   at http://www.ietf.org/ipr.

   The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
   copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary
   rights that may cover technology that may be required to implement
   this standard.  Please address the information to the IETF at
   ietf-ipr@ietf.org.


Acknowledgment

   Funding for the RFC Editor function is provided by the IETF
   Administrative Support Activity (IASA).

























Linsner                 Expires January 8, 2008                [Page 4]
