Internet Engineering Task Force                                   RMT WG
INTERNET-DRAFT                                  M. Luby/Digital Fountain
draft-ietf-rmt-bb-webrc-01.txt                 V. Goyal/Digital Fountain
                                                            1 March 2002
                                                 Expires: September 2002


          Wave and Equation Based Rate Control building block



Status of this Document

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are valid for a maximum of six months and may be
updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any time.  It is
inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material or to cite
them other than as a "work in progress".

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

To view the list Internet-Draft Shadow Directories, see
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

This document is a product of the IETF RMT WG.  Comments should be
addressed to the authors, or the WG's mailing list at rmt@lbl.gov.


                                Abstract


     Wave and Equation Based Rate Control (WEBRC) provides rate and
     congestion control for data delivery.  WEBRC is specifically
     designed to support protocols using IP multicast, but could
     also be used to provide support to protocols that use unicast.
     WEBRC provides multiple rate congestion controlled delivery to
     receivers, i.e., different receivers joined to the same
     session may be receiving packets at different rates depending



Luby/Goyal                                                      [Page 1]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


     on their individual bandwidth connection to the sender and on
     competing traffic along that connection.  WEBRC requires no
     feedback from receivers to the sender, i.e., it is a
     completely receiver-driven congestion control protocol.  Thus,
     WEBRC is designed to scale to potentially massive numbers of
     receivers attached to a session from a single sender.
     Furthermore, because each individual receiver adjusts to the
     available bandwidth between the sender and that receiver,
     there is the potential to deliver data to each individual
     receiver at the fastest possible rate for that receiver, even
     in a highly heterogeneous network architecture, using a single
     sender.







































Luby/Goyal                                                      [Page 2]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


                           Table of Contents


     1. Introduction. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
     2. Rationale . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
     3. Functionality . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
      3.1. Sender Operation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
       3.1.1. Sender inputs and initialization. . . . . . . . .   8
       3.1.2. Sending packets to the session. . . . . . . . . .  10
      3.2. Receiver Operation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  11
       3.2.1. Receiver inputs and initialization. . . . . . . .  11
       3.2.2. Receiver measurements and calculations. . . . . .  12
        3.2.2.1. Average loss probability . . . . . . . . . . .  12
        3.2.2.2. Average round-trip time. . . . . . . . . . . .  13
        3.2.2.3. Rate Equation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
        3.2.2.4. Epochs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
        3.2.2.5. Average reception rate . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
        3.2.2.6. Slow start . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
        3.2.2.7. Target rate. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
       3.2.3. Receiver events . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
        3.2.3.1. Epoch change . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  16
        3.2.3.2. Time slot change . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
        3.2.3.3. Join a wave channel. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
        3.2.3.4. Loss event . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
        3.2.3.5. Exceptional timeouts . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
     4. Applicability Statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
      4.1. Environmental Requirements and
      Considerations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  18
     5. Packet Header Fields. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20
      5.1. Short Format Congestion Control Information. . . . .  21
      5.2. Long Format Congestion Control Information . . . . .  22
     6. Requirements From Other Building Blocks . . . . . . . .  23
     7. Security Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  23
     8. IANA Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
     9. Intellectual Property Issues. . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
     10. References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  24
     11. Authors' Addresses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  26
     12. Full Copyright Statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  27













Luby/Goyal                                                      [Page 3]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


1.  Introduction

This document specifies Wave and Equation Based Rate Control (WEBRC).
WEBRC is a congestion control building block that is designed to be
massively scalable when used with the IP multicast network service.
WEBRC is also suitable as the basis for unicast congestion control, but
this is outside the scope of this document.  WEBRC is designed to
compete fairly with TCP and similar congestion-controlled sessions.
WEBRC can be used as a congestion control protocol for any type of data
delivery, including reliable content delivery and streaming delivery.

This document describes a building block as defined in RFC3048 [17] that
conforms to RFC2357 [14].


WEBRC is a receiver-driven congestion control protocol in the spirit of
[16] and [3]. This means that all measurements and decisions to raise or
lower the reception rate are made by each individual receiver, and these
decisions are acted upon by sending join and leave messages for channels
to the network.  A receiver using WEBRC adjusts its reception rate
without regard for other concerns such as reliability.  This is
different from TCP, where the congestion control protocol and the
reliability protocol are intricately interwoven with one another.

WEBRC takes the same basic equation-based approach as TFRC [5]. In
particular, each WEBRC receiver measures parameters that are plugged
into a TCP-like equation to compute the receiver target reception rate,
and adjusts its reception rate up and down to closely approximate the
target reception rate.  The sender sends packets to multiple channels
called wave channels.  Each wave channel follows the same pattern of
packet rate transmission spread out over equally spaced intervals of
time.  The pattern of each wave is that it starts at a high rate that
decreases gradually and continually over a long interval of time.
(Picture an infinite sequence of waves.)  The receiver increases its
reception rate by joining the next wave channel earlier in the descent
of the wave than it joined the previous wave channel, and the receiver
decreases its reception rate by joining the next wave channel later in
the descent of the wave than it joined the previous wave channel.

WEBRC is designed for applications that use a fixed packet size, and
vary their packet reception rate in response to congestion.  WEBRC is
designed to be reasonably fair when competing for bandwidth with TCP
flows, where a flow is ``reasonably fair'' if its reception rate is
generally within a factor of two of the reception rate of a TCP flow
under the same conditions.  However WEBRC has a much lower variation of
throughput over time compared to TCP, which makes it more suitable for
applications such as telephony or streaming media where a relatively
smooth rate is of importance.  Furthermore, WEBRC is designed to be



Luby/Goyal                                          Section 1.  [Page 4]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


massively scalable in the sense that the sender is insensitive to the
number of receivers joined to a multicast session.  The penalty of
having smoother throughput than TCP while competing fairly for bandwidth
is that WEBRC responds slower than TCP to changes in available
bandwidth.

The receiver measures and performs the calculation of congestion control
parameters (e.g., the average loss probability) and makes decisions on
how to increase or decrease its rate based on these parameters.  The
receiver-based approach is well suited to an application where the
sender is handling many concurrent connections and therefore WEBRC is
suitable as a building block for multicast congestion control.

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in RFC2119.



2.  Rationale

WEBRC provides congestion control for massively scalable protocols using
the IP multicast network service.  The congestion control that WEBRC
provides is common to a variety of applications, including reliable
content delivery and streaming applications.

WEBRC is designed to provide congestion control for all packets that are
sent to a session.  A session comprises multiple channels originating at
a single sender that are used for some period of time to carry packets
pertaining to the transmission of one or more objects that can be of
interest to receivers.  The logic behind defining a session as
originating from a single sender is that this is the right granularity
to regulate packet traffic via congestion control.  The rationale for
providing congestion control that uses multiple channels within the same
session is that this allows the data on the channels to be layered, and
a receiver joins and leaves channels in a layered order during its
participation in the session.  There are advantages to layered data for
streaming, where more data can be sent to the lower layers and
incrementally important data to higher layers.  For reliable content
delivery, as described in [12] an application can send in packets
encoded data generated from an object in such a way that the arrival of
enough packets by a receiver is sufficient to reliably reconstruct
original object.  A primary advantage of WEBRC is that each receiver
controls it reception rate independent of other receivers.  Thus, for
example, a receiver with a slow connection to the sender does not slow
down the receivers with faster connections.

There are coding techniques that provide massively scalable reliability



Luby/Goyal                                          Section 2.  [Page 5]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


and asynchronous delivery which are compatible with WEBRC.  When
combined the result is a massively scalable, reliable, asynchronous
content delivery protocol that is network friendly.  WEBRC also provides
congestion control that suitable for streaming applications.

WEBRC avoids using techniques that are not massively scalable.  For
example, WEBRC does not provide any mechanisms for sending information
from receivers to senders, although this does not rule out protocols
that both use WEBRC and do require sending information from receivers to
senders.

WEBRC provides congestion control that can be tuned for different
applications that may have differing application requirements. For
example, a content delivery protocol may aggressively strive to use all
available bandwidth between receivers and the sender, and thus it must
drastically back off its rate when there is competing traffic.  On the
other hand, a streaming delivery protocol may strive to maintain a
constant rate instead of trying to use all available bandwidth, and thus
it may not back off its rate as fast when there is competing traffic.

WEBRC does not provide any support beyond congestion control, and thus
it must be combined with other building blocks to provide a complete
protocol instantiation.  For example, WEBRC does not provide any means
that can be used to identify which session each received packet belongs
to.  As another example, WEBRC does not provide support for identifying
which object each packet is carrying information about.



3.  Functionality

A WEBRC session comprises a logically related set of channels
originating from a single sender that are used for some period of time
to carry data packets with a header carrying WEBRC Congestion Control
Information.  At the network layer, a channel can be uniquely identified
by a (sender IP address, multicast group address) pair.

For each WEBRC session, the channels within the session are mapped
uniquely to consecutive channel numbers.  In each packet sent to a
channel, the channel number that corresponds to the channel is carried
in the WEBRC Congestion Control Information.  A WEBRC receiver uses the
channel number to determine which channel within a session a packet is
received from.  When packets are received, they are first checked to see
that they belong to the appropriate session before WEBRC is applied.
For example, if LCT [11] is being used with the session, then the sender
IP address together with the Transport Session Identifier supported by
LCT would be used to determine which session a received packet belongs
to.  The particular details of how this filtering is performed it



Luby/Goyal                                          Section 3.  [Page 6]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


outside the scope of this document.  In the remainder of this document,
channels will be referred to by their channel number in the scope of the
session.

At the sender, time is partitioned into time slots, each of duration TSD
seconds.  There are a fixed number T of time slot indices associated
with a session.  As time progresses, the current time slot index
increases by one modulo T each TSD seconds.  The current time slot index
CTSI is carried in the WEBRC Congestion Control Information.  This
allows receivers to perform very coarse grained synchronization within a
session.

WEBRC congestion control is achieved by having the sender send packets
associated with a given session to several different channels.
Individual receivers dynamically join and leave these channels according
to the network congestion as experienced by the receiver.  These
congestion control adjustments are performed at each receiver
independently of all other receivers, and in the case of multicast
without any impact on the sender.  A packet sequence number is carried
in the WEBRC Congestion Control Information.  The packet sequence
numbers are consecutively numbered per channel and are used by receivers
to measure packet loss.

The channels associated with a session consist of one base channel and T
wave channels.  The packet rate for each channel varies over time.  For
the base channel, packets are sent to the channel at a low rate BCR_P at
the beginning of a time slot and this rate gradually decreases to
P*BCR_P at the end of the time slot, where P < 1 is a constant defined
later.  This pattern for the base channel repeats over each time slot.
For each wave channel i, packets are sent to channel i starting at a
high rate MWCR_P and decreasing over time by a fixed fraction P per time
slot until a rate of BCR_P is reached at the end of time slot i.  Then,
for a period of time called the quiescent period, no packets are sent to
wave channel i, and thereafter the whole cycle repeats itself, where the
duration of the cycle is T*TSD seconds.  Thus, the wave channels are
going through the same cyclic pattern of packet rate transmission spaced
out evenly by TSD seconds.

Before joining a session, the receivers MUST obtain enough of the
session description to start the session.  This MUST include the
relevant session parameters needed by a receiver to participate in the
session and perform WEBRC congestion control.  The session description
is determined by the sender and is typically communicated to the
receivers out of band.  How receivers obtain the session description is
outside the scope of this document.

When a receiver initiates a session, it first joins the base channel.
The packets in the base channel help the receiver orient itself in terms



Luby/Goyal                                          Section 3.  [Page 7]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


of what the current time slot index is, which in turn allows the
receiver to know the relative rates on the wave channels.  The receiver
remains joined to the base channel for the duration of its participation
in the session.

After joining a session the receiver adjusts its rate upwards and
downwards by joining wave channels in sequence, from the lowest rate
wave channel and moving towards the higher rate wave channels.  Since
the relative ordering among the channels with respect to their rate
depends on the current time slot index, it is important that the
receiver continually monitor the current time slot index contained in
received packets.  The reception rate at the receiver is determined by
how early each wave channel is joined by the receiver: the earlier the
receiver joins a channel with respect to when its wave started, the
higher the reception rate.  When the receiver wants to decrease its
rate, it joins the next wave channel at a later time relative to when it
joined the previous wave.  When the receiver wants to increase its rate,
it joins the next wave channel at an earlier time relative to when it
joined the previous wave.

Once the receiver is joined to a wave channel, the receiver remains
joined to the wave channel until the channel goes quiescent, at which
point the receiver MUST leave the channel.

The way the receiver adjusts its reception rate is inspired by TFRC [5].
The receiver at all points in time maintains a target reception rate,
and the receiver is allowed to join the next wave channel if after
joining its anticipated reception rate would be at most its target
reception rate.  The target rate is continually updated based on a set
of measured parameters.  The primary parameters are the average loss
probability (measured in much the same way as described in TFRC) and the
average round-trip time (measured as described below).



3.1.  Sender Operation

The sender operation is by design much simpler than the receiver
operation.



3.1.1.  Sender inputs and initialization

The primary input to the sender for the session is MSR_b.  MSR_b is the
maximum sender transmission rate in bits per second at any point in time
in aggregate to all channels.  This is also the maximum rate in bits per
second that any  receiver could receive data from the session at any



Luby/Goyal                                      Section 3.1.1.  [Page 8]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


point in time.

The secondary inputs to the sender are listed below.  These are
secondary inputs because in general the values for these inputs will be
fixed to default values that will not change, or because they are set
based on non-WEBRC considerations.

  o LENP_B is the length of packets in bytes sent to the session.  The
    value of LENP_B depends on the complete protocol, but in general
    this should be set to as high a value as possible without exceeding
    the MTU size for the network that would cause fragmentation.

  o BCR_P is the transmission rate on the base channel at the beginning
    of a time slot in packets per second.  The default value for BCR_P
    is 1.

  o TSD is the time slot duration measured in seconds.  The default
    value for TSD is 10.

  o QD is the minimum quiescent period duration measured in seconds.
    The default value for QD is 300.

  o P is the multiplicative drop in every channel rate over each time
    slot.  The default value for P is 0.75.

>From these inputs the following fixed sender parameters can be derived
as follows.

  o MSR_P = MSR_b/(8*LENP_B) is the maximum sender transmission rate in
    packets per second.

  o BCR_b = 8*LENP_B*BCR_P is the rate of the base channel at the
    beginning of a time slot in bits per second.

  o N = floor{log_{1/P}((1+(1-P)/P^2)*(MSR_P/BCR_P))}-1 is the number of
    active time slots for a wave channel.  A wave channel is active in
    any time slot if it is not quiescent.  N is also the number of wave
    channels active in every time slot.

  o Q = ceil(QD/TSD) is the number of quiescent time slots for a wave
    channel.

  o T = N + Q is the total number of time slots in a cycle.  T is also
    the total number of wave channels.

  o For the base channel CN = T and for the wave channels CN =
    0,1,...,T-1.  The sender has the description of the channels
    assigned to the session and the mapping between the channels and the



Luby/Goyal                                      Section 3.1.1.  [Page 9]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


    CNs.

  o C = TSD*T is the total duration in seconds of a cycle.



3.1.2.  Sending packets to the session

The sender keeps track of the current time slot index CTSI.  The value
of CTSI is incremented by 1 modulo T each TSD seconds.  The value of
CTSI is placed into each packet in the format described in Section 5.
For each packet sent to the session, the sender also places the channel
number CN of the channel into the packets in the format described in
Section 5. Recall that CN = T for the base channel and CN = 0,1,...,T-1
for the wave channels.

For each packet sent to the session, the sender calculates and places a
packet sequence number PSN into the packet.  The value of PSN is scoped
by CN, and the value of PSN is consecutively increasing within each
channel.  Furthermore, for each wave channel, the last packet sent
before the channel becomes quiescent must have the maximum possible PSN
value.  When the short format for Congestion Control Information is used
(see Section 5.1), this implies that for any wave channel the PSN values
are 65 535, 65 534, 65 533, ..., going backward in time starting at the
last packet sent to the channel just before the channel becomes
quiescent.  Similarly, when the long format for Congestion Control
Information is used (see Section 5.2), the PSN for the final packet of
any wave is 4 294 967 295.  The PSN of the initial packet of a wave thus
depends on TSD, P, BCR_P and MSR_P.  The format for the PSN within
packets is described in Section 5.

Packets are sent to the base channel at a rate of BCR_P packets per
second at the beginning of a time slot decreasing at a constant relative
rate till the rate reaches P*BCR_P at the end of a time slot.  To
explain the packet rate for wave channels, suppose for simplicity that
MSR_P/BCR_P = 1 + (1/P) + (1/P)^2 + ... + (1/P)^N =
((1/P)^{N+1}-1)*P/(1-P).  For all i = 0,1,...,T-1, the rate for wave
channel i behaves as follows.  At the beginning of time slot i+Q+1
modulo T, packets are sent to wave channel i at the rate of
BCR_P*(1/P)^N.  The rate of packets sent to wave channel i steadily
decreases geometrically by a factor of P during each of the next N time
slots until the end of time slot i when the rate reaches BCR_P.  During
the Q time slots i+1 modulo T, i+2 modulo T, ..., i+Q modulo T, wave
channel i is quiescent, i.e., no packets are sent to the channel.







Luby/Goyal                                     Section 3.1.2.  [Page 10]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


3.2.  Receiver Operation

The bulk of the complexity in WEBRC is in the receiver operation.  For
ease of explanation, suppose for the moment that during the reception
there is no packet loss and packets are arriving at exactly the rate at
which they were sent.  The sender transmission rate to the channels is
designed so that the receiver reception rate behaves as follows.

Upon entering a session, the receiver immediately joins the base
channel.  When the receiver wants to increase its rate, it consecutively
joins wave channels from the lowest rate channel to the highest rate
channel.  (Recall that the designations of lowest to highest change at
time slot boundaries.)  When the receiver wants to maintain its current
reception rate and it is already joined to NWC wave channels, if the
receiver joins channel i-1+NWC modulo T sometime during time slot i then
the receiver joins channel i+NWC modulo T TSD seconds later in time slot
i+1.  As each wave channel becomes quiescent the receiver leaves the
channel.

Suppose the receiver wants to decrease its rate till it is joined to
just the base channel.  Assume that a receiver is joined to the NWC wave
channels i, i+1 modulo T, ..., i+NWC-1 modulo T at the beginning of time
slot i.  Then, the aggregate packet reception rate of the receiver over
the next NWC time slots will behave as follows.  At the beginning of
time slot i the receiver reception rate is BCR_P*(1 + (1/P) + (1/P)^2 +
... + (1/P)^NWC).  Then the receiver reception rate decreases by a
factor of P over the duration of each time slot, and at the end of each
time slot the reception rate decreases by an additive amount of P*BCR_P.
At the end of time slot i+NWC-1 mod T, the receiver reception rate is
BCR_P*(1+P), and at the beginning of time slot i+NWC mod T the receiver
is joined only to the base channel and its reception rate is BCR_P.



3.2.1.  Receiver inputs and initialization

Before joining a session the receiver MUST know the mapping between the
CNs and the channels.  Upon joining the session, it should have the
values of LENP_B, BCR_P, TSD, P, N, Q and T.  Some of these values may
be obtained or measured once the receiver has joined the session.  For
example, the receiver MAY obtain LENP_B and T from the first packet
received from the base channel, and the receiver MAY measure BCR_P once
it is joined to the base channel.  The values of P, Q and TSD MAY be
fixed to default values built into the receiver that do not change from
session to session, and the value of N MAY be computed as T-Q.

When a receiver first joins a session, it MUST first join just the base
channel and start receiving packets to determine the current time slot



Luby/Goyal                                     Section 3.2.1.  [Page 11]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


index.  If during the course of the session the receiver continually
loses a high fraction of the packets from the base channel even when the
receiver is only joined to the base channel, the receiver SHOULD leave
the session.

The receiver MAY also have other individually set parameters that may be
used to determine its behavior.  Two such parameters are:

  o MRR_b is the maximum receiver reception rate in bits per second.
    This may be used to determine the maximum reception rate this
    receiver is willing to reach.  Thus, the maximum reception rate that
    the receiver can possibly achieve in the session is the minimum of
    MSR_b and MRR_b.  A recommended value of MRR_b for a receiver is the
    bandwidth capacity of the last link to the receiver.  MRR_P is the
    maximum receiver reception rate in packets per second, i.e., MRR_P =
    MRR_b/(8*LENP_B).

  o CONNEC is the number of virtual connections that the receiver is
    making to the sender to receive data from the session.  This affects
    how competitive the receiver will be compared to other receivers
    (both TCP and WEBRC receivers) in competing for bandwidth over
    bottleneck links.  The standard default value for CONNEC is 1.



3.2.2.  Receiver measurements and calculations

As outlined in the introduction, the way a receiver adjusts its
reception rate is inspired by TFRC [5]. The receiver at all points in
time maintains a target reception rate, and the receiver is allowed to
join the next wave channel if joining would increase its reception rate
to at most its target reception rate.  The target rate is continually
updated based on a set of measured parameters.  The primary parameters
are the average loss probability LOSSP and the average round-trip time
ARTT.



3.2.2.1.  Average loss probability

The average loss probability LOSSP of the receiver is maintained in a
manner very similar to that described in TFRC [5]. The calculation of
LOSSP as the inverse of a weighted average is exactly as described in
TFRC, with the same definition of loss events.  One difference is the
number of inter-loss periods that are used to compute the average loss
event rate:





Luby/Goyal                                   Section 3.2.2.1.  [Page 12]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


  o In TFRC, it is recommended that the loss probability be averaged
    over the previous 8 loss events.

  o In WEBRC, it is recommended that the loss probability LOSSP be
    averaged over the previous channel periods that include 8 channel
    periods where there was at least one loss event.  A channel period
    is defined as the time between when a wave channel is joined till
    the time the next wave channel is joined.  Thus, since a channel
    period is generally around TSD seconds, the loss probability will
    generally be averaged over at least 8*TSD seconds.

The other difference is in the weights:

  o In TFRC, it is recommended that the weights (1, 1, 1, 1, 0.875,
    0.625, 0.375, 0.125) be used for the 8 inter-loss periods (from most
    recent to most distant past).

  o In WEBRC, it is recommended that these same 8 values be used for the
    loss events that are 1,2,...,8 lossy channel periods into the past.
    In addition, it is recommended that the weight for each inter-loss
    period be multiplicatively adjusted by the factor P^max{0,LOSS_NWC-
    NWC-1}, where NWC is the number of wave channels the receiver is
    currently subscribed to and LOSS_NWC is the number of wave channels
    the receiver was subscribed to at the end of the inter-loss period
    in question.



3.2.2.2.  Average round-trip time

The receiver maintains an average round-trip time, ARTT, as the
exponentially weighted moving average of RTT measurements.  Each time
the receiver joins a channel (either the base channel at the beginning
or wave channels continually), it makes a measurement of the round-trip
time RTT as follows.  When the receiver sends the join for the channel
it records the current time X and sets a Boolean variable JOINING to
true.  When the first packet is received from the channel the receiver
records the current time Y and resets the value of JOINING to false.  If
it is the base channel that has been joined, RTT is set to Y - X.
Otherwise, when the receiver receives a second packet from the channel
it records the current time Z.  Then, the value of RTT is set to 3*Y/2 -
Z/2 - X.  (Note that this value can be negative.)

When the kth RTT measurement is made, the value of ARTT is updated to
max{ARRT/2, (1-delta)*ARTT + delta*RTT}, where delta =
alpha/(1-(1-alpha)^k).  The recommended value for alpha is 0.1.

It is RECOMMENDED that the RTT measurement be adjusted appropriately for



Luby/Goyal                                   Section 3.2.2.2.  [Page 13]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


packets lost between the first and second received packets.



3.2.2.3.  Rate Equation

The receiver calculates the reception rate REQN based on the TCP-
equation as follows: REQN = CONNEC/(ARTT*sqrt{LOSSP}(0.816 +
7.35*LOSSP*(1+32*LOSSP^2))).  This equation comes from TFRC [5].


3.2.2.4.  Epochs

The receiver makes decisions on whether or not to join another wave
channel at equally spaced units of time called epochs.  The duration of
an epoch in seconds, EL, is set to be a small fraction of TSD, so that
decisions to join a channel can be made at a much finer granularity than
TSD.  A standard setting is EL = TSD/20.  Thus, if TSD = 10, then EL =
0.5.



3.2.2.5.  Average reception rate

There are two averaged versions of reception rate maintained by the
receiver: TRR_P, the true reception rate, and ARR_P, the anticipated
reception rate.  These are used for different purposes and thus are
calculated quite differently.

The true reception rate TRR_P is used to ensure that the receiver does
not increase its reception rate too quickly above its current reception
rate.  TRR_P is calculated based on the measurement of RR_P, where RR_P
is the receiver reception rate in packets per second measured at the
beginning of an epoch averaged over the epoch that just ended.  TRR_P is
initialized to BCR_P.  TRR_P is updated to (1-beta)*TRR_P + beta*RR_P at
the beginning of each epoch after RR_P is measured for the previous
epoch.

The anticipated reception rate ARR_P is the receiver's estimate of the
total instantaneous rate of the currently subscribed channels.  It is
used to compare against the target rate to decide whether or not the
receiver can increase its reception rate by joining the next channel.
ARR_P is calculated based on a measurement IRR_P and on the number of
subscribed wave channels NWC.  IRR_P is what the ideal receiver
reception rate should have been in packets per second measured at the
beginning of the epoch averaged over the previous epoch, i.e., IRR_P
includes both received and lost packets.  ARR_P is initialized to BCR_P
and NWC is initialized to 0.  ARR_P, IRR_P and NWC are updated as



Luby/Goyal                                   Section 3.2.2.5.  [Page 14]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


follows:

  o At the beginning of each epoch, IRR_P is measured over the previous
    epoch and then ARR_P is updated to P^(EL/TSD)*(1-gamma)*ARR_P +
    gamma*IRR_P.

  o When a join is made to a wave channel, NWC is updated to NWC+1 and
    then ARR_P is multiplicatively increased by the factor
    ((1/P)^(NWC+1)-1)/((1/P)^NWC-1).  (Joins happen at epoch boundaries;
    this adjustment is in addition to the adjustment above.)

  o When a new time slot index is detected, ARR_P is additively
    increased by (1-P)*BCR_P to account for the change in rate on the
    base channel.  In addition, for each wave channel that has just been
    detected to be quiescent and thus had a leave message sent, ARR_P is
    additively decreased by BCR_P and NWC is decremented by 1.
    (Normally, a change of time slot index indicates that one wave
    channel has become quiescent.)

Consider for the moment what happens if gamma = 0 and ARR_P is an
accurate estimate of the total rate of the subscribed channels.  The
adjustments to ARR_P upon joining and leaving wave channels, with the
passage of epochs, and with the detection of time slot changes will then
cause ARR_P to remain an accurate estimate.  In practice, gamma MUST be
positive; allowing an influence of IRR_P prevents ARR_P from drifting
away from being an accurate estimate of the total subscribed rate.

The motivation for separate estimates TRR_P and ARR_P is as follows.
TRR_P alone is not appropriate for comparison with the TFRC-inspired
target rate because there is a considerable lag before it reflects the
rate increase resulting from joining the next wave channel.  However,
TRR_P is needed because ARR_P alone does not reflect the amount of data
getting to the receiver, and a large gap between the subscribed rate and
the received rate should not be allowed.

The recommended values of beta and gamma depend on whether the receiver
is in slow start mode.  Slow start is indicated by TRR_P < SSR_P/zeta^2,
where SSR_P is defined in the following subsection and zeta =
((1/P)^(NWC+2)-1)/((1/P)^(NWC+1)-1).  It is recommended that beta and
gamma equal P/(1+P) in slow start and equal (2/3)*(-c/2 + sqrt(c^2/4 +
3*c/2), where c = 1 - cos(6.283*EL/TSD), otherwise.



3.2.2.6.  Slow start

WEBRC uses a slow start mechanism to quickly ramp up its rate at both
the beginning of the session and in the middle of a session when the



Luby/Goyal                                   Section 3.2.2.6.  [Page 15]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


rate drops precipitously.  To enact this, the receiver maintains the
following parameters:

  o SSMINR_P is the minimum allowed slow start threshold rate in packets
    per second.  The recommended value for SSMINR_P is
    BCR_P*(1+1/P+1/P^2).

  o SSR_P is the slow start threshold rate in packets per second.  SSR_P
    is initialized to MRR_P*P^2.



3.2.2.7.  Target rate

The target rate TRATE is computed as TRATE = min{max{SSR_P, REQN},
TRR_P*((1/P)^(NWC+3)-1)/((1/P)^(NWC+1)-1), MRR_P}.



3.2.3.  Receiver events

There are various receiver events, some of which are triggered by the
passing of time on the receiver, and others by events such as packet
reception, detection of packet loss, reception of a first packet from a
channel, and exceptional time-outs.



3.2.3.1.  Epoch change

This is an event that is driven by the passage of time on the receiver,
which occurs each EL seconds.  When this happens, TRR_P and ARR_P are
computed as described in Section 3.2.2.5. Immediately after these
updates, a decision is made about whether to join a wave channel as
described in Section 3.2.3.3.




3.2.3.2.  Time slot change

This is an event that is driven by the reception of a packet with a new
CTSI value.  When a packet with a new CTSI = i is received, a leave is
sent for wave channel i-1 modulo T, NWC is updated to NWC-1, and ARR_P
is updated to ARR_P - P*BCR_P as described in Section 3.2.2.5.






Luby/Goyal                                   Section 3.2.3.2.  [Page 16]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


3.2.3.3.  Join a wave channel

At the beginning of each epoch, after updating the values of ARR_P and
TRR_P as described in Section 3.2.2.5, the receiver decides whether or
not to join a wave channel as follows:

  o If there is a loss event in progress (LOSS_EVENT = true) or there is
    a join of a channel in progress (JOINING = true), then no join of a
    channel is attempted.

  o The receiver calculates REQN as described in Section 3.2.2.3.

  o The receiver calculates TRATE as described in Section 3.2.2.7.

  o The receiver checks if TRATE >
    ARR_P*((1/P)^{NWC+2}-1)/((1/P)^{NWC+1}-1).  In this case,
    subscribing to an additional wave channel is not expected to
    increase the subscribed rate over the target rate.  Suppose CTSI = i
    and NWC = J.  If the inequality is true then the receiver joins the
    wave channel with CN = i+J modulo T, updates NWC to NWC+1, and then
    updates ARTT to ARR_P*((1/P)^{NWC+1}-1)/((1/P)^NWC-1) as described
    in Section 3.2.2.5.


3.2.3.4.  Loss event

Each time the receiver detects a lost packet (based on the sequence
numbers in the packets scoped by the channel number), the receiver
records the start of a new loss event, and sets a Boolean variable
LOSS_EVENT to true that will automatically reset to false after ARTT
seconds.  All subsequent packet loss for a period of ARTT seconds is
considered as part of the same loss event.  When a start of a loss event
is detected, the value of SSR_P is updated to max{SSMINR_P, TRR_P*P^2}.

It is RECOMMENDED that the receiver account for simple misordering of
packets without inferring a loss.



3.2.3.5.  Exceptional timeouts

These are timeouts when the packet reception behavior is far from what
it should be and should trigger a drastic event by the receiver.
Exception timeouts include events such as when no packets are received
for a long time, there is no change in the current time slot index for a
long time, or no first or second packet is received after join to
channel for a long time.




Luby/Goyal                                   Section 3.2.3.5.  [Page 17]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


4.  Applicability Statement

WEBRC is intended to be a congestion control scheme that can be used in
a complete protocol instantiation that delivers objects and streams
(both reliable content delivery and streaming of multimedia
information).  A WEBRC session comprises a logically related set of one
or more channels originating at a single sender that are used for some
period of time to carry packets pertaining to the transmission of one or
more objects that can be of interest to receivers.  WEBRC congestion
control is to be performed over the aggregate of all packets sent to the
session.

WEBRC is most applicable for delivery of objects or streams of
substantial length, i.e., objects or streams that range in length from
hundreds of kilobytes to many gigabytes, and whose transfer time is in
the order of tens of seconds or more.


4.1.  Environmental Requirements and Considerations


WEBRC can be used with both multicast and unicast networks.  However,
the scope of this document is limited to multicast.  WEBRC requires
connectivity between a sender and receivers, but does not require
connectivity from receivers to the sender.

WEBRC inherently works with all types of networks, including LANs, WANs,
Intranets, the Internet, asymmetric networks, wireless networks, and
satellite networks.  Thus, the inherent raw scalability of WEBRC is
unlimited.  However, in some network environments varying reception
rates to receivers may not be advantageous, e.g., when the network is a
satellite network with a fixed amount of bandwidth dedicated to a
session.

Receivers join and leave channels using the appropriate multicast join
and leave messages.  For IPv4 multicast, IGMP messages are used by
receivers to join and leave channels.  For IPv6, MLDv2 messages are used
by receivers to join and leave channels.  This is the only dependency of
WEBRC on the IP version.

WEBRC requires receivers to be able to uniquely identify and demultiplex
packets associated with a session in order to effectively perform
congestion control over all packets associated with the session.  How
receivers achieve this is outside the scope of this document.

WEBRC is presumed to be used with an underlying network or transport
service that is a ``best effort'' service that does not guarantee packet
reception, packet reception order, and which does not have any support



Luby/Goyal                                       Section 4.1.  [Page 18]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


for flow or congestion control.  For example, the Any-Source Multicast
(ASM) model of IP multicast as defined in RFC1112 [4] is such a best
effort network service.  While the basic service provided by RFC1112 is
largely scalable, providing congestion control or reliability should be
done carefully to avoid severe scalability limitations, especially in
the presence of heterogeneous sets of receivers.

There are currently two models of multicast delivery, the Any-Source
Multicast (ASM) model as defined in RFC1112 [4] and the Source-Specific
Multicast (SSM) model as defined in [6]. WEBRC works with both multicast
models, but in a slightly different way with somewhat different
environmental concerns.  When using ASM, a sender S sends packets to a
multicast group G, and the WEBRC channel address consists of the pair
(S,G), where S is the IP address of the sender and G is a multicast
group address.  When using SSM, a sender S sends packets to an SSM
channel (S,G), and the WEBRC channel address coincides with the SSM
channel address.

A sender can locally allocate unique SSM channel addresses, and this
makes allocation of channel addresses easy with SSM.  To allocate
channel addresses using ASM, the sender must uniquely chose the ASM
multicast group address across the scope of the group, and this makes
allocation of WEBRC channel addresses more difficult with ASM.

WEBRC channels and SSM channels coincide, and thus the receiver will
only receive packets sent to the requested WEBRC channel.  With ASM, the
receiver joins a channel by joining a multicast group G, and all packets
sent to G, regardless of the sender, may be received by the receiver.
Thus, SSM has compelling security advantages over ASM for prevention of
denial of service attacks.  In either case, receivers SHOULD use
mechanisms to filter out packets from unwanted sources.

WEBRC assumes that the packet route between the sender and a particular
receiver is the same for all channels associated with a session.  For
SSM this assumption is true because the multicast tree is a shortest
path tree from each receiver to the sender and generally this path
changes infrequently.  For ASM there are some issues that if not
properly considered may invalidate this assumption.  With ASM, the
packet route between the sender and receivers may initially be through
the Rendezvous Point (RP) and then switch over to the shortest path to
the sender as packets start flowing in a channel.  The first issue is
that the RP may not be the same for all channels associated with a
session, and thus the first packets sent to the channels may follow a
route that depends on the RP of the channel.  This depends on the RP
configuration for the sender.  If the sender registers all channels
associated with the session with the same RP then the assumption is
true, but if the sender registers different channels with different RPs
then the assumption may not be true.  Thus, it is RECOMMENDED that the



Luby/Goyal                                       Section 4.1.  [Page 19]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


sender register all channels associated with a session with the same RP.
Another issue is that when the channel switches over from the RP to the
sender-based tree then the route to the receivers may vary within a
channel.  Furthermore, this may cause either the receipt of duplicate
packets at receivers or loss of packets depending on the smoothness of
the switchover.  Thus, it is RECOMMENDED that the RP be placed as close
as possible to the sender.  The best location for the RP is that it be
the first-hop router closest to the sender, in which case the path to
the sender and the path to the RP is the same for each receiver and the
problems mentioned above are eliminated.  The consequences of this
assumption not being true are that the receiver reaction to congestion
may not be appropriate.  Generally, the WEBRC receiver will act
conservatively and reduce its reception rate too much if this assumption
is not true, but there can be cases where the receivers will act
inappropriately.

Some networks are not amenable to the WEBRC congestion control protocol.
In particular, for a satellite or wireless network, there may be no
mechanism for receivers to effectively reduce their reception rate since
there may be a fixed transmission rate allocated to the session.



5.  Packet Header Fields

Packets sent to a session using WEBRC MUST include Congestion Control
Information fields as specified in this section. This document specifies
short and long formats for the Congestion Control Information, and it is
RECOMMENDED that protocol instantiations use one of these two formats.
Other formats for the Congestion Control Information fields MAY be used
by protocol instantiations, but all protocol instantiations are REQUIRED
to use these fields in a format that is compatible with the
interpretations of these fields.  Thus, if a protocol does use a
different format for the fields in the Congestion Control Information
then it MUST specify the lengths and positions of these fields within
the packet header.

All integer fields are carried in "big-endian" or "network order"
format, that is, most significant byte (octet) first.  All constants,
unless otherwise specified, are expressed in base ten.



5.1.  Short Format Congestion Control Information

The short format for the Congestion Control Information is shown in Fig.
1.  The total length of the short format is 32-bits.




Luby/Goyal                                       Section 5.1.  [Page 20]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |      CTSI     | Channel Number|    Packet Sequence Number     |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+


Fig. 1 - Short format for Congestion Control Information


The function of each field in the Congestion Control Information is the
following.


  Current Time Slot Index (CTSI): 8 bits

      CTSI indicates the index of the current time slot.  This must be
      sent in each packet within the session.  The Current Time Slot
      Index increases by one modulo T each TSD seconds at the sender,
      where T is the number of time slots associated with the session
      and TSD is the time slot duration.  Note that T is also the number
      of wave channels associated with the session, and thus T MUST be
      at most 255.


  Channel Number (CN): 8 bits

      CN is the channel number that this packet belongs to.  CN for the
      base channel is T, and the CNs for the wave channels are 0 through
      T-1.  Thus, T+1 channels in total are used, and thus T MUST be at
      most 255.


  Packet Sequence Number (PSN): 16 bits

      The PSN of each packet is scoped by its CN value.  The sequence
      numbers of consecutive packets sent to the base channel are
      numbered consecutively modulo 2^16.  The same sequence of PSNs are
      used for each wave channel in each cycle.  The sequence numbers of
      consecutive packets sent to a wave channel are numbered
      consecutively modulo 2^16 within each cycle, ending with the last
      packet sent to the channel before the channel goes quiescent with
      PSN = 2^16-1.








Luby/Goyal                                       Section 5.1.  [Page 21]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


5.2.  Long Format Congestion Control Information

The long format for the Congestion Control Information is shown in Fig.
2.  The total length of the long format is 64-bits.


  0                   1                   2                   3
  0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |             CTSI              |        Channel Number         |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
 |                     Packet Sequence Number                    |
 +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+


Fig. 1 - Long format for Congestion Control Information


The meaning of each field for the long format is the same as for the
short format, the only difference is that each field is twice as long.


  Current Time Slot Index (CTSI): 16 bits

      CTSI indicates the index of the current time slot.  This must be
      sent in each packet within the session.  The Current Time Slot
      Index increases by one modulo T each TSD seconds at the sender,
      where T is the number of time slots associated with the session
      and TSD is the time slot duration.  Note that T is also the number
      of wave channels associated with the session, and thus T MUST be
      at most 65 535.


  Channel Number (CN): 16 bits

      CN is the channel number that this packet belongs to.  CN for the
      base channel is T, and the CNs for the wave channels are 0 through
      T-1.  Thus, T+1 channels in total are used, and thus T MUST be at
      most 65 535.


  Packet Sequence Number (PSN): 32 bits

      The PSN of each packet is scoped by its CN value.  The sequence
      numbers of consecutive packets sent to the base channel are
      numbered consecutively modulo 2^32.  The same sequence of PSNs are
      used for each wave channel in each cycle.  The sequence numbers of
      consecutive packets sent to a wave channel are numbered



Luby/Goyal                                       Section 5.2.  [Page 22]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


      consecutively modulo 2^32 within each cycle, ending with the last
      packet sent to the channel before the channel goes quiescent with
      PSN = 2^32-1.



6.  Requirements From Other Building Blocks

As described in RFC3048, WEBRC is a building block that is intended to
be used, in conjunction with other building blocks, to help specify a
protocol instantiation.

WEBRC does not provide higher level session support, e.g., how receivers
obtain the necessary session description and how the receivers
demultiplex received packets based on their session.  There is support
provided by other building blocks that can be used in conjunction with
WEBRC to provide some of this support.  For example, LCT [11] can
provide some of the higher level in-band session support that may be
needed by receivers, and the WEBRC Congestion Control Information (CCI)
required in each packet can be carried in the CCI field of the LCT
header [11].

WEBRC does not provide any type of reliability, and in particular does
not provide support for retransmission of loss packets.  Reliability can
be added by independent means, such as by the use of FEC codes as
described in [12] and specified in the FEC building block [13].


7.  Security Considerations

WEBRC can be subject to denial-of-service attacks by attackers that try
to confuse the congestion control mechanism for receivers by injecting
forged packets into the multicast stream.  This attack most adversely
affects network elements and receivers downstream of the attack, and
much less significantly the rest of the network and other receivers.
Because of this and because of the potential attacks due to the use of
FEC described above, it is RECOMMENDED that some form of packet
authentication such as TESLA [15] be used to protect against such
attacks and that Reverse Path Forwarding checks be enabled in all
network routers and switches along the path from the sender to receivers
to limit the possibility of a bad agent injecting forged packets into
the multicast tree data path.

A receiver with an incorrect or corrupted implementation of WEBRC may
affect health of the network in the path between the sender and the
receiver, and may also affect the reception rates of other receivers
joined to the session.  It is therefore RECOMMENDED that receivers be
required to identify themselves as legitimate before they receive the



Luby/Goyal                                         Section 7.  [Page 23]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


session description needed to join the session.

Another vulnerability of ALC is the potential of receivers obtaining an
incorrect session description for the session.  The consequences of this
could be that legitimate receivers with the wrong session description
are unable to correctly receive the session content, or that receivers
inadvertently try to receive at a much higher rate than they are capable
of, thereby disrupting traffic in portions of the network.  To avoid
these problems, it is RECOMMENDED that the receiver authenticate the
session description, for example by using either the ESP (with enabled
authentication service) [9] or AH [8] protocols of IPSEC [7] to ensure
the authenticity of the session description.



8.  IANA Considerations

No information in this specification is subject to IANA registration.



9.  Intellectual Property Issues


Digital Fountain maintains all rights to the WEBRC technology, but will
grant a royalty-free worldwide license to the WEBRC technology once it
has been standardized.

WEBRC may be used with other protocols which are proprietary, or have
pending or granted patents.



10.  References


[1] Bradner, S., ``The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3,''
RFC2026, October 1996.

[2] Bradner, S., ``Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
Levels,'' RFC2119, March 1997.

[3] Byers, J.W., Frumin, M., Horn, G., Luby, M., Mitzenmacher, M.,
Roetter, A., and Shaver, W., ``FLID-DL: Congestion Control for Layered
Multicast,'' Proc. Second International Workshop on Networked Group
Communications (NGC 2000), Palo Alto, CA, November 2000, pp. 71-81.

[4] Deering, S., ``Host Extensions for IP Multicasting,'' RFC1112,



Luby/Goyal                                        Section 10.  [Page 24]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


August 1989.

[5] Handley, M., Padhye, J., Floyd, S., Widmer, J., ``TCP Friendly Rate
Control (TFRC): Protocol Specification,'' Internet Draft draft-ietf-
tsvwg-tfrc-03, July 2001, a work in progress.

[6] Holbrook, H. W., ``A Channel Model for Multicast,'' Ph.D.
Dissertation, Stanford University, Department of Computer Science,
Stanford, California, August 2001.

[7] Kent, S., Atkinson, R., ``Security Architecture for the Internet
Protocol,'' RFC2401, November 1998.

[8] Kent, S., Atkinson, R., ``IP Authentication Header,'' RFC2406,
November 1998.

[9] Kent, S., Atkinson, R., ``IP Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP),''
RFC2406, November 1998.

[10] Luby, M., Gemmell, J., Vicisano, L., Rizzo, L., Crowcroft, J.,
``Asynchronous Layered Coding protocol instantiation,'' Internet Draft
draft-ietf-rmt-pi-alc-06, February 2002, a work in progress.

[11] Luby, M., Gemmell, J., Vicisano, L., Rizzo, L., Handley, M.,
Crowcroft, J., ``Layered Coding Transport building block,'' Internet
Draft draft-ietf-rmt-bb-lct-04.txt, February 2002, a work in progress.

[12] Luby, M., Gemmell, Vicisano, L., J., Rizzo, L., Handley, M.,
Crowcroft, J., ``The Use of Forward Error Correction in Reliable
Multicast,'' Internet Draft draft-ietf-rmt-info-fec-02.txt, February
2002, a work in progress.

[13] Luby, M., Gemmell, J., Vicisano, L., Rizzo, L., Handley, M.,
Crowcroft, J., ``Forward Error Correction building block,'' Internet
Draft draft-ietf-rmt-bb-fec-06.txt, February 2002.

[14] Mankin, A., Romanow, A., Bradner, S., Paxson V., ``IETF Criteria
for Evaluating Reliable Multicast Transport and Application Protocols,''
RFC2357, June 1998.

[15] Perrig, A., Canetti, R., Song, D., Tygar, J.D., ``Efficient and
Secure Source Authentication for Multicast,'' Network and Distributed
System Security Symposium, NDSS 2001, pp. 35-46, February 2001.

[16] Vicisano, L., Rizzo, L., Crowcroft, J., "TCP-like Congestion
Control for Layered Multicast Data Transfer", Proc. IEEE Infocom '98,
San Francisco, CA, March-April 1998, pp. 996-1003.




Luby/Goyal                                        Section 10.  [Page 25]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


[17] Whetten, B., Vicisano, L., Kermode, R., Handley, M., Floyd, S.,
Luby, M., ``Reliable Multicast Transport Building Blocks for One-to-Many
Bulk-Data Transfer,'' RFC3048, January 2001.



11.  Authors' Addresses

   Michael Luby
   luby@digitalfountain.com
   Digital Fountain
   39141 Civic Center Drive
   Suite 300
   Fremont, CA, USA, 94538

   Vivek Goyal
   vivek@digitalfountain.com
   Digital Fountain
   39141 Civic Center Drive
   Suite 300
   Fremont, CA, USA, 94538






























Luby/Goyal                                        Section 11.  [Page 26]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002


12.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works. However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS
IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK
FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT
INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."


























Luby/Goyal                                        Section 12.  [Page 27]

INTERNET-DRAFT           Expires: September 2002              March 2002





















































Luby/Goyal                                        Section 12.  [Page 28]
