


IDMR Working Group                                           Dave Thaler
INTERNET-DRAFT                                    University of Michigan
Expires September 1995                                     23 March 1995


             Distance-Vector Multicast Routing Protocol MIB
                    <draft-thaler-dvmrp-mib-00.txt>


Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."


1.  Introduction

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in the Internet
community.  In particular, it describes managed objects used for
managing the Distance-Vector Multicast Routing Protocol (DVMRP) protocol
[5].  This MIB module is applicable to IP multicast routers which
implement DVMRP.





















Expires 23 September 1995                                       [Page 1]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                      March 1995


2.  The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework

The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework consists of four major com-
ponents.  They are:

o    RFC 1442 [1] which defines the SMI, the mechanisms used for
     describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.

o    STD 17, RFC 1213 [2] defines MIB-II, the core set of managed
     objects for the Internet suite of protocols.

o    RFC 1445 [3] which defines the administrative and other
     architectural aspects of the framework.

o    RFC 1448 [4] which defines the protocol used for network access to
     managed objects.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.


2.1.  Object Definitions

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) defined in the
SMI.  In particular, each object type is named by an OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
an administratively assigned name.  The object type together with an
object instance serves to uniquely identify a specific instantiation of
the object.  For human convenience, we often use a textual string,
termed the descriptor, to refer to the object type.


3.  Overview

This MIB module contains two scalars and three tables.  The tables are:

(1)  the DVMRP Virtual Interface Table which contains one row for each
     of the router's DVMRP virtual interfaces;

(2)  the DVMRP Neighbor Table which contains one row for each of the
     router's DVMRP neighbors; and

(3)  the DVMRP Boundary Table which contains one row for each
     administrative boundary.






Expires 23 September 1995                                       [Page 2]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                      March 1995


4.  Definitions

DVMRP-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, experimental,
    Integer32, Counter32,
    IpAddress, TimeTicks             FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    DisplayString                    FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP  FROM SNMPv2-CONF;

dvmrpMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9503231256Z"
    ORGANIZATION "IETF IDMR Working Group."
    CONTACT-INFO
            " Dave Thaler
              University of Michigan
              1301 Beal Ave.
              Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2122
              EMail: thalerd@eecs.umich.edu"
    DESCRIPTION
            "The MIB module for management of DVMRP routers."
    ::= { experimental xx }   -- to be assigned by IANA

dvmrpMIBObjects OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dvmrpMIB 1 }

dvmrp           OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dvmrpMIBObjects 1 }

dvmrpVersion OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The router's version number."
    ::= { dvmrp 1 }

dvmrpGenerationId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The generation identifier for the routing process.  This is
             used by neighboring routers to detect whether pruning
             information should be resent."
    ::= { dvmrp 2 }


-- The DVMRP Virtual Interface Table



Expires 23 September 1995                                       [Page 3]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                      March 1995


dvmrpVInterfaceTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF DvmrpVInterfaceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing the router's DVMRP virtual
            interfaces."
    ::= { dvmrp 3 }

dvmrpVInterfaceEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     DvmrpVInterfaceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the dvmrpVInterfaceTable."
    INDEX      { dvmrpVInterfaceVifIndex }
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceTable 1 }

DvmrpVInterfaceEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    dvmrpVInterfaceVifIndex           Integer32,
    dvmrpVInterfaceType               INTEGER,
    dvmrpVInterfaceState              INTEGER,
    dvmrpVInterfaceLocalAddress       IpAddress,
    dvmrpVInterfaceRemoteAddress      IpAddress,
    dvmrpVInterfaceRemoteSubnetMask   IpAddress,
    dvmrpVInterfaceMetric             Integer32,
    dvmrpVInterfaceRateLimit          Integer32,
    dvmrpVInterfaceInPkts             Counter32,
    dvmrpVInterfaceOutPkts            Counter32 }

dvmrpVInterfaceVifIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The ifIndex value of this DVMRP virtual interface."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 1 }

dvmrpVInterfaceType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER { tunnel(1), srcrt(2), querier(3) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The type of this DVMRP virtual interface, whether it uses
             a tunnel, source routing, or a physical interface."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 2 }

dvmrpVInterfaceState OBJECT-TYPE



Expires 23 September 1995                                       [Page 4]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                      March 1995


    SYNTAX     INTEGER { up(1), down(2), disabled(3) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The state of this DVMRP virtual interface."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 3 }

dvmrpVInterfaceLocalAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the local end of this DVMRP virtual
            interface."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 4 }

dvmrpVInterfaceRemoteAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the remote end of this DVMRP virtual
            interface.  For a tunnel (including source routed), this
            is the IP address of the neighboring router.  For a subnet
            (querier), this is the subnet address."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 5 }

dvmrpVInterfaceRemoteSubnetMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The subnet mask for a directly connected subnet.  For
            a tunnel, this should be 0.0.0.0."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 6 }

dvmrpVInterfaceMetric OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The distance metric this DVMRP virtual interface which
            is used to calculate distance vectors."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 7 }

dvmrpVInterfaceRateLimit OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only



Expires 23 September 1995                                       [Page 5]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                      March 1995


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The rate-limit, in kilobits per second, of forwarded
            multicast traffic on the DVMRP virtual interface."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 8 }

dvmrpVInterfaceInPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of packets that have arrived on the DVMRP
            virtual interface."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 9 }

dvmrpVInterfaceOutPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of packets that have been sent on the DVMRP
            virtual interface."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 10 }


-- The DVMRP Neighbor Table

dvmrpNeighborTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF DvmrpNeighborEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing the router's DVMRP
            neighbors."
    ::= { dvmrp 4 }

dvmrpNeighborEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     DvmrpNeighborEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the dvmrpNeighborTable."
    INDEX      { dvmrpNeighborAddress }
    ::= { dvmrpNeighborTable 1 }

DvmrpNeighborEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    dvmrpNeighborAddress         IpAddress,
    dvmrpNeighborVifIndex        Integer32,



Expires 23 September 1995                                       [Page 6]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                      March 1995


    dvmrpNeighborUpTime          TimeTicks,
    dvmrpNeighborExpiryTime      TimeTicks,
    dvmrpNeighborVersion         DisplayString,
    dvmrpNeighborGenerationId    Integer32 }

dvmrpNeighborAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the DVMRP neighbor for which this entry
            contains information."
    ::= { dvmrpNeighborEntry 1 }

dvmrpNeighborVifIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of VifIndex for the virtual interface used to
            reach this DVMRP neighbor."
    ::= { dvmrpNeighborEntry 2 }

dvmrpNeighborUpTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The time since this DVMRP neighbor (last) became a neighbor
            of the local router."
    ::= { dvmrpNeighborEntry 3 }

dvmrpNeighborExpiryTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The minimum time remaining before this DVMRP neighbor will
            be aged out."
    ::= { dvmrpNeighborEntry 4 }

dvmrpNeighborVersion OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The neighoring router's version number."
    ::= { dvmrpNeighborEntry 5 }



Expires 23 September 1995                                       [Page 7]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                      March 1995


dvmrpNeighborGenerationId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The neighboring router's generation identifier."
    ::= { dvmrpNeighborEntry 6 }


-- The DVMRP Boundary Table

dvmrpBoundaryTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF DvmrpBoundaryEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing the router's DVMRP
            virtual interface boundaries."
    ::= { dvmrp 5 }

dvmrpBoundaryEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     DvmrpBoundaryEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the dvmrpVInterfaceTable."
    INDEX      { dvmrpBoundaryVifIndex, dvmrpBoundaryAddress,
                 dvmrpBoundaryAddressMask }
    ::= { dvmrpBoundaryTable 1 }

DvmrpBoundaryEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    dvmrpBoundaryVifIndex           Integer32,
    dvmrpBoundaryAddress            IpAddress,
    dvmrpBoundaryAddressMask        IpAddress }

dvmrpBoundaryVifIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The VifIndex value of the DVMRP virtual interface to
            which this boundary applies.  Packets with a destination
            address in the associated address/mask range will not
            be forwarded out this virtual interface."
    ::= { dvmrpBoundaryEntry 1 }

dvmrpBoundaryAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress



Expires 23 September 1995                                       [Page 8]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                      March 1995


    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The group address of the scoped boundary."
    ::= { dvmrpBoundaryEntry 2 }

dvmrpBoundaryAddressMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The group address mask of the scoped boundary."
    ::= { dvmrpBoundaryEntry 3 }






































Expires 23 September 1995                                       [Page 9]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                      March 1995


-- conformance information

dvmrpMIBConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dvmrpMIB 2 }

dvmrpMIBCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dvmrpMIBConformance 1 }

dvmrpMIBGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dvmrpMIBConformance 2 }


-- compliance statements

dvmrpMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for the DVMRP MIB."
    MODULE  -- this module
        MANDATORY-GROUPS { dvmrpMIBGroup }

    ::= { dvmrpMIBCompliances 1 }


-- units of conformance

dvmrpMIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { dvmrpVersion, dvmrpGenerationId,
              dvmrpVInterfaceType, dvmrpVInterfaceState,
              dvmrpVInterfaceLocalAddress, dvmrpVInterfaceRemoteAddress,
              dvmrpVInterfaceRemoteSubnetMask,
              dvmrpVInterfaceMetric, dvmrpVInterfaceRateLimit,
              dvmrpVInterfaceInPkts, dvmrpVInterfaceOutPkts,
              dvmrpNeighborVifIndex, dvmrpNeighborUpTime,
              dvmrpNeighborExpiryTime, dvmrpNeighborVersion,
              dvmrpNeighborGenerationId, dvmrpBoundaryVifIndex
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects to support management of DVMRP
            routers."
    ::= { dvmrpMIBGroups 1 }

END


5.  Acknowledgements

This MIB module will be presented to the IETF's Inter-Domain Multicast
Routing (IDMR) Working Group.




Expires 23 September 1995                                      [Page 10]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                      March 1995


6.  References

[1]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Structure
     of Management Information for version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1442, SNMP Research,Inc., Hughes
     LAN Systems, Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., Carnegie Mellon
     University, April 1993.

[2]  McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II", STD 17,
     RFC 1213, Hughes LAN Systems, Performance Systems International,
     March 1991.

[3]  Galvin, J., and K. McCloghrie, "Administrative Model for version 2
     of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1445,
     Trusted Information Systems, Hughes LAN Systems, April 1993.

[4]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Protocol
     Operations for version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1448, SNMP Research,Inc., Hughes LAN Systems, Dover
     Beach Consulting, Inc., Carnegie Mellon University, April 1993.

[5]  Waitzman, D., Partridge, C., and S.E. Deering, "Distance Vector
     Multicast Routing Protocol", RFC 1075, Bolt Beranek and Newman,
     Stanford University, November 1988.


7.  Security Considerations

Security considerations ane not discussed in this memo.


8.  Author's Address

   Dave Thaler
   Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
   University of Michigan
   1301 Beal Ave.
   Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2122
   Phone: (313) 763-5243
   EMail: thalerd@eecs.umich.edu










Expires 23 September 1995                                      [Page 11]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                      March 1995





                           Table of Contents



1 Introduction ....................................................    1
2 The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework .........................    2
2.1 Object Definitions ............................................    2
3 Overview ........................................................    2
4 Definitions .....................................................    3
5 Acknowledgements ................................................   10
6 References ......................................................   11
7 Security Considerations .........................................   11
8 Author's Address ................................................   11



































Expires 23 September 1995                                      [Page 12]


