Network Working Group                                Ned Freed, Innosoft
Internet Draft                             Steve Kille, ISODE Consortium
Obsoletes: 1565, 2248               <draft-ietf-madman-netsm-mib-04.txt>

                    Network Services Monitoring MIB

                               June 1999

                          Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC 2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

                            Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1999).  All Rights Reserved.

1.  Introduction

A networked application is a realization of some well-defined service on
one or more host computers that is accessible via some network, uses
some network for its internal operations, or both.

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

There are a wide range of networked applications for which it is
appropriate to provide SNMP monitoring of their network usage.  This
includes applications using both TCP/IP and OSI networking.  This
document defines a MIB which contains the elements common to the
monitoring of any network service application.  This information
includes a table of all monitorable network service applications, a
count of the associations (connections) to each application, and basic
information about the parameters and status of each application-related
association.

This MIB may be used on its own for any application, and for most simple
applications this will suffice.  This MIB is also designed to serve as a
building block which can be used in conjunction with application-
specific monitoring and management.  Two examples of this are MIBs
defining additional variables for monitoring a Message Transfer Agent
(MTA) service or a Directory Service Agent (DSA) service. It is expected
that further MIBs of this nature will be specified.

This MIB does not attempt to provide facilities for management of the
host or hosts the network service application runs on, nor does it
provide facilities for monitoring applications that provide something
other than a network service.  Host resource and general application
monitoring is handled by either the Host Resources MIB [1] or the
application MIB [2].

2.  Table of Contents

1 Introduction ....................................................    1
2 Table of Contents ...............................................    2
3 The SNMP Network Management Framework ...........................    3
4 Rationale for having a Network Services Monitoring MIB ..........    4
4.1 General Relationship to Other MIBs ............................    4
4.2 Restriction of Scope ..........................................    4
4.3 Configuration Information .....................................    5
5 Application Objects .............................................    5
6 Definitions .....................................................    6
7 Changes made since RFC 2248 .....................................   23
8 Acknowledgements ................................................   23
9 References ......................................................   23
10 Security Considerations ........................................   25
11 Author and Chair Addresses .....................................   26
12 Full Copyright Statement .......................................   26

Expires December 1999                                           [Page 2]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

3.  The SNMP Network Management Framework

The SNMP Management Framework presently consists of five major
components:

    o   An overall architecture, described in RFC 2571 [3].

    o   Mechanisms for describing and naming objects and events for the
        purpose of management. The first version of this Structure of
        Management Information (SMI) is called SMIv1 and described in
        RFC 1155 [4], RFC 1212 [5] and RFC 1215 [6]. The second version,
        called SMIv2, is described in RFC 2578 [7], RFC 2579 [8] and RFC
        2580 [9].

    o   Message protocols for transferring management information. The
        first version of the SNMP message protocol is called SNMPv1 and
        described in RFC 1157 [10]. A second version of the SNMP message
        protocol, which is not an Internet standards track protocol, is
        called SNMPv2c and described in RFC 1901 [11] and RFC 1906 [12].
        The third version of the message protocol is called SNMPv3 and
        described in RFC 1906 [12], RFC 2572 [13] and RFC 2574 [14].

    o   Protocol operations for accessing management information. The
        first set of protocol operations and associated PDU formats is
        described in RFC 1157 [10]. A second set of protocol operations
        and associated PDU formats is described in RFC 1905 [15].

    o   A set of fundamental applications described in RFC 2573 [16] and
        the view-based access control mechanism described in RFC 2575
        [17].

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the mechanisms defined in the SMI.

This memo specifies a MIB module that is compliant to the SMIv2. A MIB
conforming to the SMIv1 can be produced through the appropriate
translations. The resulting translated MIB must be semantically
equivalent, except where objects or events are omitted because no
translation is possible (use of Counter64). Some machine readable
information in SMIv2 will be converted into textual descriptions in
SMIv1 during the translation process. However, this loss of machine
readable information is not considered to change the semantics of the
MIB.

Expires December 1999                                           [Page 3]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

4.  Rationale for having a Network Services Monitoring MIB

Much effort has been expended in developing tools to manage lower layer
network facilities.  However, relatively little work has been done on
managing application layer entities.  It is neither efficient nor
reasonable to manage all aspects of application layer entities using
only lower layer information. Moreover, the difficulty of managing
application entities in this way increases dramatically as application
entities become more complex.

This leads to a substantial need to monitor applications which provide
network services, particularly distributed components such as MTAs and
DSAs, by monitoring specific aspects of the application itself.  Reasons
to monitor such components include but are not limited to measuring
load, detecting broken connectivity, isolating system failures, and
locating congestion.

In order to manage network service applications effectively two
requirements must be met:

 (1)   It must be possible to monitor a large number of components
       (typical for a large organization).

 (2)   Application monitoring must be integrated into general network
       management.

This specification defines simple read-only access; this is sufficient
to determine up/down status and provide an indication of a broad class
of operational problems.

4.1.  General Relationship to Other MIBs

This MIB is intended to only provide facilities common to the monitoring
of any network service application.  It does not provide all the
facilities necessary to monitor any specific application.  Each specific
type of network service application is expected to have a MIB of its own
that makes use of these common facilities.

4.2.  Restriction of Scope

The framework provided here is very minimal; there is a lot more that
could be done. For example:

Expires December 1999                                           [Page 4]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

 (1)   General network service application configuration monitoring and
       control.

 (2)   Detailed examination and modification of individual entries in
       service-specific request queues.

 (3)   Probing to determine the status of a specific request (e.g., the
       location of a mail message with a specific message-id).

 (4)   Requesting that certain actions be performed (e.g., forcing an
       immediate connection and transfer of pending messages to some
       specific system).

All these capabilities are both impressive and useful.  However, these
capabilities would require provisions for strict security checking.
These capabilities would also mandate a much more complex design, with
many characteristics likely to be fairly implementation-specific.  As a
result such facilities are likely to be both contentious and difficult
to implement.

This document religiously keeps things simple and focuses on the basic
monitoring aspect of managing applications providing network services.
The goal here is to provide a framework which is simple, useful, and
widely implementable.

4.3.  Configuration Information

This MIB attempts to provide information about the operational aspects
of an application. Further information about the actual configuration of
a given application may be kept in other places; the applDirectoryName
or applURL may be used to point to places where such information is
kept.

5.  Application Objects

This MIB defines a set of general purpose attributes which would be
appropriate for a range of applications that provide network services.
Both OSI and non-OSI services can be accommodated. Additional tables
defined in extensions to this MIB provide attributes specific to
specific network services.

A table is defined which will have one row for each operational network
service application on the system.  The only static information held on

Expires December 1999                                           [Page 5]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

the application is its name.  All other static information should be
obtained from various directory services.  The applDirectoryName is an
external key, which allows an SNMP MIB entry to be cleanly related to
the X.500 Directory.  In SNMP terms, the applications are grouped in a
table called applTable, which is indexed by an integer key applIndex.

The type of the application will be determined by one or both of:

 (1)   Additional MIB variables specific to the applications.

 (2)   An association to the application of a specific protocol.

6.  Definitions

NETWORK-SERVICES-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    OBJECT-TYPE, Counter32, Gauge32, MODULE-IDENTITY, mib-2
      FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    DisplayString, TimeStamp, TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
      FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP
      FROM SNMPv2-CONF;
    Utf8String FROM SYSAPPL-MIB;

application MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9906250000Z"
    ORGANIZATION "IETF Mail and Directory Management Working Group"
    CONTACT-INFO
      "        Ned Freed

       Postal: Innosoft International, Inc.
               1050 Lakes Drive
               West Covina, CA 91790
               US

          Tel: +1 626 919 3600
          Fax: +1 626 919 3614

       E-Mail: ned.freed@innosoft.com"
    DESCRIPTION
      "The MIB module describing network service applications"
    REVISION "9905120000Z"
    DESCRIPTION

Expires December 1999                                           [Page 6]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

      "This revision, published in RFC XXXX, switches from using
       DisplayString to Utf8String in various places."
    REVISION "9905120000Z"
    DESCRIPTION
      "This revision fixes a few small technical problems found
       in previous versions, mostly in regards to the conformance
       groups for different versions of this MIB.  No changes have
       been made to the objects this MIB defines since RFC 2248."
    REVISION "9708170000Z"
    DESCRIPTION
      "This revision, published in RFC 2248, adds the
       applDescription and applURL objects, adds the quiescing
       state to the applOperStatus object and renames the MIB
       from the APPLICATION-MIB to the NETWORK-SERVICE-MIB."
    REVISION "9311280000Z"
    DESCRIPTION
      "The original version of this MIB was published in RFC 1565"
    ::= {mib-2 27}

-- Textual conventions

-- DistinguishedName is used to refer to objects in the
-- directory.

DistinguishedName ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    DISPLAY-HINT "255a"
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A Distinguished Name represented in accordance with
         RFC 1779, presented in the NVT ASCII charset
         defined in RFC 854."
    SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (0..255))

-- Uniform Resource Locators are stored in URLStrings.

URLString ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    DISPLAY-HINT "255a"
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A Uniform Resource Locator represented in accordance
         with RFCs 1738 and 2368, presented in the NVT ASCII
         charset defined in RFC 854."
    SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (0..255))

Expires December 1999                                           [Page 7]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

-- The basic applTable contains a list of the application
-- entities.

applTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF ApplEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The table holding objects which apply to all different
         kinds of applications providing network services.
         Each network service application capable of being
         monitored should have a single entry in this table."
    ::= {application 1}

applEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX ApplEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "An entry associated with a single network service
       application."
    INDEX {applIndex}
    ::= {applTable 1}

ApplEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    applIndex
        INTEGER,
    applName
        DisplayString,
    applDirectoryName
        DistinguishedName,
    applVersion
        DisplayString,
    applUptime
        TimeStamp,
    applOperStatus
        INTEGER,
    applLastChange
        TimeStamp,

Expires December 1999                                           [Page 8]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

    applInboundAssociations
        Gauge32,
    applOutboundAssociations
        Gauge32,
    applAccumulatedInboundAssociations
        Counter32,
    applAccumulatedOutboundAssociations
        Counter32,
    applLastInboundActivity
        TimeStamp,
    applLastOutboundActivity
        TimeStamp,
    applRejectedInboundAssociations
        Counter32,
    applFailedOutboundAssociations
        Counter32,
    applDescription
        DisplayString,
    applURL
        URLString,
    applUTF8Name
        Utf8String,
    applUTF8Version,
        Utf8String,
    applUTF8Description
        Utf8String
}

applIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX INTEGER (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "An index to uniquely identify the network service
       application. This attribute is the index used for
       lexicographic ordering of the table."
    ::= {applEntry 1}

Expires December 1999                                           [Page 9]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

applName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
      "The name the network service application chooses to be
       known by."
    ::= {applEntry 2}

applDirectoryName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX DistinguishedName
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The Distinguished Name of the directory entry where
       static information about this application is stored.
       An empty string indicates that no information about
       the application is available in the directory."
    ::= {applEntry 3}

applVersion OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
      "The version of network service application software.
       This field is usually defined by the vendor of the
       network service application software."
    ::= {applEntry 4}

applUptime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The value of sysUpTime at the time the network service
       application was last initialized.  If the application was
       last initialized prior to the last initialization of the
       network management subsystem, then this object contains
       a zero value."
    ::= {applEntry 5}

Expires December 1999                                          [Page 10]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

applOperStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX INTEGER {
      up(1),
      down(2),
      halted(3),
      congested(4),
      restarting(5),
      quiescing(6)
    }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "Indicates the operational status of the network service
       application. 'down' indicates that the network service is
       not available. 'up' indicates that the network service
       is operational and available.  'halted' indicates that the
       service is operational but not available.  'congested'
       indicates that the service is operational but no additional
       inbound associations can be accommodated.  'restarting'
       indicates that the service is currently unavailable but is
       in the process of restarting and will be available soon.
       'quiescing' indicates that service is currently operational
       but is in the process of shutting down. Additional inbound
       associations may be rejected by applications in the
       'quiescing' state."
    ::= {applEntry 6}

applLastChange OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The value of sysUpTime at the time the network service
       application entered its current operational state.  If
       the current state was entered prior to the last
       initialization of the local network management subsystem,
       then this object contains a zero value."
    ::= {applEntry 7}

Expires December 1999                                          [Page 11]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

applInboundAssociations OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Gauge32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The number of current associations to the network service
       application, where it is the responder.  An inbound
       assocation occurs when another application successfully
       connects to this one."
    ::= {applEntry 8}

applOutboundAssociations OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Gauge32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The number of current associations to the network service
       application, where it is the initiator.  An outbound
       association occurs when this application successfully
       connects to another one."
    ::= {applEntry 9}

applAccumulatedInboundAssociations OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The total number of associations to the application entity
       since application initialization, where it was the responder."
    ::= {applEntry 10}

applAccumulatedOutboundAssociations OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The total number of associations to the application entity
       since application initialization, where it was the initiator."
    ::= {applEntry 11}

Expires December 1999                                          [Page 12]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

applLastInboundActivity OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The value of sysUpTime at the time this application last
       had an inbound association.  If the last association
       occurred prior to the last initialization of the network
       subsystem, then this object contains a zero value."
    ::= {applEntry 12}

applLastOutboundActivity OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The value of sysUpTime at the time this application last
       had an outbound association.  If the last association
       occurred prior to the last initialization of the network
       subsystem, then this object contains a zero value."
    ::= {applEntry 13}

applRejectedInboundAssociations OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The total number of inbound associations the application
       entity has rejected, since application initialization.
       Rejected associations are not counted in the accumulated
       association totals.  Note that this only counts
       associations the application entity has rejected itself;
       it does not count rejections that occur at lower layers
       of the network.  Thus, this counter may not reflect the
       true number of failed inbound associations."
    ::= {applEntry 14}

Expires December 1999                                          [Page 13]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

applFailedOutboundAssociations OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The total number associations where the application entity
       is initiator and association establishment has failed,
       since application initialization.  Failed associations are
       not counted in the accumulated association totals."
    ::= {applEntry 15}

applDescription OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
      "A text description of the application.  This information
       is intended to identify and briefly describe the
       application in a status display."
    ::= {applEntry 16}

applURL OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX URLString
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "A URL pointing to a description of the application.
       This information is intended to identify and describe
       the application in a status display."
    ::= {applEntry 17}

applUTF8Name OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Utf8String
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The name the network service application chooses to be
       known by.  This UTF-8 version of the name, if present,
       supersedes the old applName DisplayString value."
    ::= {applEntry 18}

Expires December 1999                                          [Page 14]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

applUTF8Version OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Utf8String
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The version of network service application software.
       This field is usually defined by the vendor of the
       network service application software.  This URF-8
       version, if present, supersedes the old applVersion
       DisplayString value."
    ::= {applEntry 19}

applUTF8Description OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX Utf8String
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The version of network service application software.
       This field is usually defined by the vendor of the
       network service application software.  This URF-8
       version, if present, supersedes the old
       applDescription DisplayString value."
    ::= {applEntry 20}

-- The assocTable augments the information in the applTable
-- with information about associations.  Note that two levels
-- of compliance are specified below, depending on whether
-- association monitoring is mandated.

assocTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF AssocEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The table holding a set of all active application
         associations."
    ::= {application 2}

Expires December 1999                                          [Page 15]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

assocEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX AssocEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "An entry associated with an association for a network
       service application."
    INDEX {applIndex, assocIndex}
    ::= {assocTable 1}

AssocEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    assocIndex
        INTEGER,
    assocRemoteApplication
        DisplayString,
    assocApplicationProtocol
        OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
    assocApplicationType
        INTEGER,
    assocDuration
        TimeStamp
}

assocIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX INTEGER (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "An index to uniquely identify each association for a network
       service application.  This attribute is the index that is
       used for lexicographic ordering of the table.  Note that the
       table is also indexed by the applIndex."
    ::= {assocEntry 1}

Expires December 1999                                          [Page 16]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

assocRemoteApplication OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The name of the system running remote network service
       application.  For an IP-based application this should be
       either a domain name or IP address.  For an OSI application
       it should be the string encoded distinguished name of the
       managed object.  For X.400(1984) MTAs which do not have a
       Distinguished Name, the RFC 2156 syntax 'mta in
       globalid' used in X400-Received: fields can be used. Note,
       however, that not all connections an MTA makes are
       necessarily to another MTA."
    ::= {assocEntry 2}

assocApplicationProtocol OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX OBJECT IDENTIFIER
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "An identification of the protocol being used for the
       application.  For an OSI Application, this will be the
       Application Context.  For Internet applications, the IANA
       maintains a registry of the OIDs which correspond to
       well-known applications.  If the application protocol is
       not listed in the registry, an OID value of the form
       {applTCPProtoID port} or {applUDProtoID port} are used for
       TCP-based and UDP-based protocols, respectively. In either
       case 'port' corresponds to the primary port number being
       used by the protocol."
    ::= {assocEntry 3}

Expires December 1999                                          [Page 17]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

assocApplicationType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX INTEGER {
        uainitiator(1),
        uaresponder(2),
        peerinitiator(3),
        peerresponder(4)}
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "This indicates whether the remote application is some type of
       client making use of this network service (e.g., a Mail User
       Agent) or a server acting as a peer. Also indicated is whether
       the remote end initiated an incoming connection to the network
       service or responded to an outgoing connection made by the
       local application.  MTAs and messaging gateways are
       considered to be peers for the purposes of this variable."
    ::= {assocEntry 4}

assocDuration OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The value of sysUpTime at the time this association was
       started.  If this association started prior to the last
       initialization of the network subsystem, then this
       object contains a zero value."
    ::= {assocEntry 5}

-- Conformance information

applConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {application 3}

applGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {applConformance 1}
applCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {applConformance 2}

Expires December 1999                                          [Page 18]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

-- Compliance statements

applCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS obsolete
    DESCRIPTION
      "The compliance statement for RFC 1565 implementations
       which support the Network Services Monitoring MIB
       for basic monitoring of network service applications.
       This is the basic compliance statement for RFC 1565."
    MODULE
      MANDATORY-GROUPS {applRFC1565Group}
    ::= {applCompliances 1}

assocCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS obsolete
    DESCRIPTION
      "The compliance statement for RFC 1565 implementations
       which support the Network Services Monitoring MIB
       for basic monitoring of network service applications
       and their associations."
    MODULE
      MANDATORY-GROUPS {applRFC1565Group, assocRFC1565Group}
    ::= {applCompliances 2}

applRFC2248Compliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
      "The compliance statement for RFC 2248 implementations
       which support the Network Services Monitoring MIB
       for basic monitoring of network service applications."
    MODULE
      MANDATORY-GROUPS {applRFC2248Group}
    ::= {applCompliances 3}

assocRFC2248Compliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
      "The compliance statement for RFC 2248 implementations
       which support the Network Services Monitoring MIB for
       basic monitoring of network service applications and
       their associations."
    MODULE
      MANDATORY-GROUPS {applRFC2248Group, assocRFC2248Group}
    ::= {applCompliances 4}

Expires December 1999                                          [Page 19]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

applRFCXXXXCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The compliance statement for RFC XXXX implementations
       which support the Network Services Monitoring MIB
       for basic monitoring of network service applications."
    MODULE
      MANDATORY-GROUPS {applRFCXXXXGroup}
    ::= {applCompliances 5}

assocRFCXXXXCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The compliance statement for RFC XXXX implementations
       which support the Network Services Monitoring MIB for
       basic monitoring of network service applications and
       their associations."
    MODULE
      MANDATORY-GROUPS {applRFCXXXXGroup, assocRFCXXXXGroup}
    ::= {applCompliances 6}

-- Units of conformance

applRFC1565Group OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
      applName, applVersion, applUptime, applOperStatus,
      applLastChange, applInboundAssociations,
      applOutboundAssociations, applAccumulatedInboundAssociations,
      applAccumulatedOutboundAssociations, applLastInboundActivity,
      applLastOutboundActivity, applRejectedInboundAssociations,
      applFailedOutboundAssociations}
    STATUS obsolete
    DESCRIPTION
      "A collection of objects providing basic monitoring of
       network service applications.  This is the original set
       of such objects defined in RFC 1565."
    ::= {applGroups 7}

Expires December 1999                                          [Page 20]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

assocRFC1565Group OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
      assocRemoteApplication, assocApplicationProtocol,
      assocApplicationType, assocDuration}
    STATUS obsolete
    DESCRIPTION
      "A collection of objects providing basic monitoring of
       network service applications' associations.  This is the
       original set of such objects defined in RFC 1565."
    ::= {applGroups 2}

applRFC2248Group OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
      applName, applVersion, applUptime, applOperStatus,
      applLastChange, applInboundAssociations,
      applOutboundAssociations, applAccumulatedInboundAssociations,
      applAccumulatedOutboundAssociations, applLastInboundActivity,
      applLastOutboundActivity, applRejectedInboundAssociations,
      applFailedOutboundAssociations, applDescription, applURL}
    STATUS deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
      "A collection of objects providing basic monitoring of
       network service applications.  This group was originally
       defined in RFC 2248; note that applDirectoryName is
       missing."
    ::= {applGroups 3}

assocRFC2248Group OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
      assocRemoteApplication, assocApplicationProtocol,
      assocApplicationType, assocDuration}
    STATUS deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
      "A collection of objects providing basic monitoring of
       network service applications' associations.  This group
       was originally defined by RFC 2248."
    ::= {applGroups 4}

Expires December 1999                                          [Page 21]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

applRFCXXXXGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
      applUTF8Name, applDirectoryName, applUTF8Version, applUptime,
      applOperStatus, applLastChange, applInboundAssociations,
      applOutboundAssociations, applAccumulatedInboundAssociations,
      applAccumulatedOutboundAssociations, applLastInboundActivity,
      applLastOutboundActivity, applRejectedInboundAssociations,
      applFailedOutboundAssociations, applUTF8Description, applURL}
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "A collection of objects providing basic monitoring of
       network service applications.  This is the appropriate
       group for RFC XXXX -- it adds the applDirectoryName object
       missing in RFC 2248 and replaces applName with applUTF8Name,
       applVersion with applUTF8Version, and applDescription with
       applUTF8Description."
    ::= {applGroups 5}

assocRFCXXXXGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
      assocRemoteApplication, assocApplicationProtocol,
      assocApplicationType, assocDuration}
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
      "A collection of objects providing basic monitoring of
       network service applications' associations.  This is
       the appropriate group for RFC XXXX."
    ::= {applGroups 6}

-- OIDs of the form {applTCPProtoID port} are intended to be used
-- for TCP-based protocols that don't have OIDs assigned by other
-- means. {applUDPProtoID port} serves the same purpose for
-- UDP-based protocols. In either case 'port' corresponds to
-- the primary port number being used by the protocol. For example,
-- assuming no other OID is assigned for SMTP, an OID of
-- {applTCPProtoID 25} could be used, since SMTP is a TCP-based
-- protocol that uses port 25 as its primary port.

applTCPProtoID OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {application 4}
applUDPProtoID OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= {application 5}

END

Expires December 1999                                          [Page 22]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

7.  Changes made since RFC 2248

This revision corrects a few minor technical errors in the construction
of the network services MIB in RFC 2248 [22]. In addition, the applName,
applVersion, and applDescription fields have been replaced by
applUTF8Name, applUTF8Version, and applUTF8Description. As the names
imply, the new variants support strings in the UTF-8 charset.

8.  Acknowledgements

This document is a product of the Mail and Directory Management (MADMAN)
Working Group.  It is based on an earlier MIB designed by S. Kille, T.
Lenggenhager, D. Partain, and W. Yeong.  The Electronic Mail
Association's TSC committee was instrumental in providing feedback on
and suggesting enhancements to RFC 1565 [23] that have led to the
present document.

9.  References

[1]  Grillo, P. and Waldbusser, S., "Host Resources MIB", RFC 1514,
     September 1993.

[2]  Krupczak, C. and Saperia, J., "Definitions of System-Level Managed
     Objects for Applications", RFC 2287, February 1998.

[3]  Wijnen, B., Harrington, D., and Presuhn, R., "An Architecture for
     Describing SNMP Management Frameworks", RFC 2571, April 1999.

[4]  Rose, M. and McCloghrie, K., "Structure and Identification of
     Management Information for TCP/IP-based Internets", RFC 1155, May
     1990.

[5]  Rose, M. and McCloghrie, K., "Concise MIB Definitions", RFC 1212,
     March 1991.

[6]  Rose, M., "A Convention for Defining Traps for use with the SNMP",
     RFC 1215, March 1991.

Expires December 1999                                          [Page 23]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

[7]  McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., and Schoenwaelder, J., "Structure of
     Management Information Version 2 (SMIv2)", RFC 2578, April 1999.

[8]  McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., and Schoenwaelder, J., "Textual
     Conventions for SMIv2", RFC 2579, April 1999.

[9]  McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., and Schoenwaelder, J., "Conformance
     Statements for SMIv2", RFC 2580, April 1999.

[10] Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and Davin, J., "Simple
     Network Management Protocol", RFC 1157, May 1990.

[11] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S.,
     "Introduction to Community-based SNMPv2", RFC 1901, January 1996.

[12] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Transport
     Mappings for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1906, January 1996.

[13] Case, J., Harrington D., Presuhn R., and Wijnen, B., "Message
     Processing and Dispatching for the Simple Network Management
     Protocol (SNMP)", RFC 2572, April 1999.

[14] Blumenthal, U. and Wijnen, B., "User-based Security Model (USM) for
     version 3 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv3)", RFC
     2574, April 1999.

[15] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Protocol
     Operations for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

[16] Levi, D., Meyer, P., and Stewart, B., "SNMPv3 Applications", RFC
     2573, April 1999.

[17] Wijnen, B., Presuhn, R., and K. McCloghrie, "View-based Access
     Control Model (VACM) for the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMP)", RFC 2575, April 1999.

Expires December 1999                                          [Page 24]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

[18] Kille, S., "A String Representation of Distinguished Names", RFC
     1779, March 1995.

[19] Kille, S., "Mapping between X.400(1988) and RFC 822/MIME", RFC
     2156, January 1998.

[20] Berners-Lee, T., Masinter, L., McCahill, M., "Uniform Resource
     Locators (URL)", RFC 1738, December 1994.

[21] Hoffman, P., Masinter, L., Zawinski, J, "The mailto URL Scheme",
     RFC 2368, July 1998.

[22] Freed, N. and Kille, S., "Network Services Monitoring MIB", RFC
     2248, January 1998.

[23] Freed, N. and Kille, S., "Network Services Monitoring MIB", RFC
     1565, January 1994.

[29] Postel, J. and Reynolds, J., "Telnet Protocol specification", RFC
     852, May 1983.

10.  Security Considerations

There are no management objects defined in this MIB that have a MAX-
ACCESS clause of read-write and/or read-create.  So, if this MIB is
implemented correctly, then there is no risk that an intruder can alter
or create any management objects of this MIB via direct SNMP SET
operations.

However, this MIB does provide passive information about the existence,
type, and configuration of applications on a given host that could
potentially indicate some sort of vulnerability. Finally, the
information MIB provides about network usage could be used to analyze
network traffic patterns.

SNMPv1 by itself is not a secure environment.  Even if the network
itself is secure (for example by using IPSec), even then, there is no
control as to who on the secure network is allowed to access and GET/SET
(read/change/create/delete) the objects in this MIB.

It is recommended that the implementers consider the security features
as provided by the SNMPv3 framework.  Specifically, the use of the
User-based Security Model RFC 2574 [14] and the View-based Access
Control Model RFC 2575 [17] is recommended.

Expires December 1999                                          [Page 25]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

It is then a customer/user responsibility to ensure that the SNMP entity
giving access to an instance of this MIB, is properly configured to give
access to the objects only to those principals (users) that have
legitimate rights to indeed GET or SET (change/create/delete) them.

11.  Author and Chair Addresses

     Ned Freed
     Innosoft International, Inc.
     1050 Lakes Drive
     West Covina, CA 91790
     USA
      tel: +1 626 919 3600
      fax: +1 626 919 3614
      email: ned.freed@innosoft.com

     Steve Kille, MADMAN WG Chair
     ISODE Consortium
     The Dome, The Square
     Richmond TW9 1DT
     UK
       tel: +44 181 332 9091
       email: S.Kille@isode.com

12.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1999). All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished  to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise  explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied,  published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without  restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice  and this paragraph are
included on all such copies and derivative  works.  However, this
document itself may not be modified in any  way, such as by removing the
copyright notice or references to the  Internet Society or other
Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of developing
Internet standards in which case the  procedures for copyrights defined
in the Internet Standards  process must be followed, or as required to
translate it into languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

Expires December 1999                                          [Page 26]

Internet Draft      Network Services Monitoring MIB            June 1999

This document and the information contained herein is provided on  an
"AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET  ENGINEERING
TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR  IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT
NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF  THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL
NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Expires December 1999                                          [Page 27]
