





Inter-Domain Policy Routing Working Group          R. A. Woodburn, Editor
Internet Draft                                                     Sparta
March 1993                                            Expires August 1993


                                 IDPR MIB



                  Definitions of Managed Objects for the
             Inter-Domain Policy Routing Protocol (Version 1)


Contents


1  Historical Perspective                                               2


2  Objects                                                              3

   2.1  Format of Definitions  :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: ::   4


3  Overview                                                             4

   3.1  Domain Structure :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: ::   4

   3.2  IDPR Functions : :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: ::   5

   3.3  IDPR MIB : :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: :: ::   7


4  Object Definitions                                                   7


5  Trap Messages                                                       40


6  Security Considerations                                             43


7  Acknowledgements                                                    43


8  References                                                          43


9  Editor's Address                                                    44

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet Draft.  Internet Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet Drafts.

This Internet Draft will be submitted to the RFC editor as an
experimental extension to the SNMP MIB. Distribution of this Internet
Draft is unlimited.  Please send comments to IDPR working group
(idpr-wg@bbn.com).

Internet Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months.
Internet Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents
at any time.  It is not appropriate to use Internet Drafts as reference
material or to cite them other than as a ``working draft'' or ``work in
progress''.

Please check the 1id-abstracts.txt listing contained in the
internet-drafts shadow directories on nic.ddn.mil, nnsc.nsf.net,
nic.nordu.net, ftp.nisc.sri.com, or munnari.oz.au to learn the current
status of any Internet Draft.


Abstract

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In
particular, it defines objects for managing the Inter-Domain Policy
Routing Protocol [10,11].

This memo does not specify a standard for the Internet community.
However, after experimentation, if sufficient consensus is reached in the
Internet community, then a subsequent revision of this document may be
incorporated into the Internet-standard MIB.


1  Historical Perspective

As reported in RFC 1052, ``IAB Recommendations for the Development of
Internet Network Management Standards'' [1], a two-prong strategy for
network management of TCP/IP-based internets was undertaken.  In the
short-term, the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP), defined in RFC
1067, was to be used to manage nodes in the Internet community.  In the
long-term, the use of the OSI network management framework was to be
examined.  Two documents were produced to define the management
information:  RFC 1065, which defined the Structure of Management
Information (SMI), and RFC 1066, which defined the Management Information
Base (MIB). Both of these documents were designed so as to be compatible
with both the SNMP and the OSI network management framework.

This strategy was quite successful in the short-term:  Internet-based
network management technology was fielded, by both the research and
commercial communities, within a few months.  As a result of this,

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                           [Page 2]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


portions of the Internet community became network manageable in a timely
fashion.

As reported in RFC 1109, Report of the Second Ad Hoc Network Management
Review Group [2], the requirements of the SNMP and the OSI network
management frameworks were more different than anticipated.  As such, the
requirement for compatibility between the SMI/MIB and both frameworks was
suspended.  This action permitted the operational network management
framework, based on the SNMP, to respond to new operational needs in the
Internet community by producing MIB-II.

In May of 1990, the core documents were elevated to "Standard Protocols"
with "Recommended" status.  As such, the Internet-standard network
management framework consists of:  Structure and Identification of
Management Information for TCP/IP-based internets, RFC 1155 [3], which
describes how managed objects contained in the MIB are defined;
Management Information Base for Network Management of TCP/IP-based
internets, which describes the managed objects contained in the MIB, RFC
1156 [4]; and, the Simple Network Management Protocol, RFC 1157 [5],
which defines the protocol used to manage these objects.  Consistent with
the IAB directive to produce simple, workable systems in the short-term,
the list of managed objects defined in the Internet-standard MIB was
derived by taking only those elements which are considered essential.
However, the SMI defined three extensibility mechanisms:  one, the
addition of new standard objects through the definitions of new versions
of the MIB; two, the addition of widely-available but non-standard
objects through the experimental subtree; and three, the addition of
private objects through the enterprises subtree.  Such additional objects
can not only be used for vendor-specific elements, but also for
experimentation as required to further the knowledge of which other
objects are essential.

This memo defines extensions to the MIB using the second method.  It
contains definitions of managed objects used for experimentation.  After
experimentation, if sufficient consensus is reached in the Internet
community, then a subsequent revision of this memo may be placed in the
Internet-standard MIB.


2  Objects

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB. Objects in the MIB are defined using
the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) [7] defined in the
SMI. In particular, each object has a name, a syntax, and an encoding.
The name is an object identifier, an administratively assigned name,
which specifies an object type.  The object type together with an object
instance serves to uniquely identify a specific instantiation of the
object.  For human convenience, we often use a textual string, termed the
OBJECT DESCRIPTOR, to also refer to the object type.

The syntax of an object type defines the abstract data structure
corresponding to that object type.  The ASN.1 language is used for this
purpose.  However, the SMI [3] purposely restricts the ASN.1 constructs

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                           [Page 3]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


which may be used.  These restrictions are explicitly made for
simplicity.

The encoding of an object type is simply how that object type is
represented using the object type's syntax.  Implicitly tied to the
notion of an object type's syntax and encoding is how the object type is
represented when being transmitted on the network.

The SMI specifies the use of the basic encoding rules of ASN.1 [8],
subject to the additional requirements imposed by the SNMP.


2.1  Format of Definitions

Section 6 contains the specification of all object types contained in
this MIB module.  The object types are defined using the conventions
defined in the SMI, as amended by the extensions specified in [9].


3  Overview

The Inter-Domain Policy Routing Protocol (IDPR) is a routing protocol for
use between Administrative Domains.  The objective of IDPR is to
construct routes between source and destination administrative domains
that provide user traffic with the service requested within the
constraints stipulated by the domains transited.

With IDPR, we introduce a new network-layer Internet protocol based on
source-specified routing between administrative domains and a new
Internet addressing structure based on an administrative domain
hierarchy.  However, for IDPR version 1, we recommend implementing a
proper subset of the complete architecture proposed in [11].  The
recommended subset provides the majority of the features of IDPR and
comprises the virtual gateway protocol, the domain status distribution
protocol, the route synthesis procedure, the path setup protocol, and the
message forwarding procedure.


3.1  Domain Structure

The IDPR architecture has been designed to accommodate an Internet with
tens of thousands of administrative domains collectively containing
hundreds of thousands of local networks.  Inter-domain policy routes are
constructed using information about the policy attributes of, and the
connectivity between, administrative domains.  The intra-domain details,
gateways and networks traversed, of an inter-domain policy route are the
responsibility of intra-domain routing and are thus outside the scope of
inter-domain routing.

An Administrative Domain (AD) is a collection of contiguous networks
managed by a single administrative authority that places policy
restrictions on transit traffic, defines policy requirements for
locally-generated traffic, and selects the intra-domain addressing


R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                           [Page 4]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


schemes and routing procedures.  Each administrative domain has a unique
identity within the Internet.

Virtual Gateways (VGs) are the only IDPR-recognized connecting points
between adjacent administrative domains.  Each virtual gateway is a
collection of directly-connected policy gateways in two adjacent domains,
whose existence has been sanctioned by the authorities in both domains.
The domain authorities may agree to establish more than one virtual
gateway between the two domains.  For each such virtual gateway, the two
authorities together assign a virtual gateway identifier, unique within
the set of virtual gateways connecting the two domains.  To produce a
virtual gateway identifier unique within its domain, the domain authority
concatenates the mutually assigned identifier together with the adjacent
domain's identifier.

Policy Gateways (PGs) are the physical gateways within a virtual gateway.
Each policy gateway enforces policy restrictions on transit traffic as
stipulated by the domain's administrative authority.  A single policy
gateway may belong to multiple virtual gateways.  Within a domain, two
policy gateways are neighbors if they are in different virtual gateways.
Within a virtual gateway, two policy gateways are peers if they are in
the same domain and are adjacent if they are in different domains.
Adjacent policy gateways are directly connected if they are the only
Internet-addressable entities attached to the connecting medium.  Note
that this definition implies that not only point-to-point links but also
networks may serve as direct connections between adjacent policy
gateways.  The authority for a given domain assigns to each of its policy
gateways an identifier, unique within that domain.


3.2  IDPR Functions

Inter-domain policy routing comprises the following functions:


  1. Collecting and distributing connectivity and policy information
     pertaining to transit domains.

  2. Synthesizing and selecting policy routes based on the connectivity
     and policy information associated with the transit domains and on
     the service requirements associated with the source.

  3. Setting up paths across the Internet, using the policy routes
     synthesized.

  4. Forwarding messages across and between administrative domains along
     the established paths.

  5. Maintaining databases of transit domain connectivity and policy,
     inter-domain policy routes, configured global information such as
     network-address/domain-identifier mappings, and configured local
     information such as the policy gateways within an administrative
     domain.


R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                           [Page 5]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


As described in [11], a source domain controls synthesis and selection of
policy routes to destination domains, while intermediate domains on a
specific source-selected policy route determine whether or not the route
is consistent with their transit policies.  The route synthesis procedure
uses domain status information in the form of advertised transit policies
and adjacencies, to generate policy routes between source and destination
domains.  The source then selects policy routes from those provided by
route synthesis, according to its own service requirements.  Policy
routes require a path setup procedure during which policy gateways in
intermediate domains verify whether or not they will carry traffic
travelling along the path, and contingent upon route acceptance, form an
association between the path identifier and the previous and next policy
gateways on the path.  Following path setup, intermediate policy gateways
use the path identifier carried in data messages to forward data traffic
along the path.

Several different entities are responsible for performing the IDPR
functions.  Policy gateways collect and distribute status information
about their administrative domains, participate in path setup, and
forward data messages along established paths.  Path agents act on behalf
of hosts to select policy routes and to set up and manage paths.
Special-purpose servers maintain the routing databases which are
distributed with partial redundancy throughout the Internet.  Each
special-purpose server within an administrative domain has a unique
identifier, assigned by the domain authority.  Route servers are
responsible for both the domain status (connectivity and policy) database
and the route database.  Also, route servers synthesize policy routes
using domain status information and source traffic requirements.  Name
servers are responsible for the
domain-name/network-address/domain-identifier database.  Configuration
servers are responsible for databases of configured information that
apply to policy gateways, path agents, and route servers in the given
administrative domain and inform these entities of configuration changes.

Both route servers and name servers are organized hierarchically, where a
server's position in the hierarchy determines the extent of its database.
At the top are global servers that maintain information about all
Internet domains; at the bottom are local servers that maintain
information about a particular domain, its neighbors, and other
frequently visited domains, this last type of information usually
obtained from higher-level servers.  Hierarchical database organization
releases hosts and gateways from the burden of maintaining information
about large portions of the Internet, most of which they will never use.

In IDPR version 1, each policy gateway performs all IDPR functions,
including those of the path agent and the special-purpose servers.
Aggregating all routing functions into policy gateways simplifies
implementation; one need only install IDPR protocols in policy gateways.
Moreover, it simplifies communication between routing functions, as all
functions reside within each policy gateway.  We also note that IDPR
version 1 supports only a flat route server hierarchy; each policy
gateway contains a global route server.  We are presently investigating
approaches to making efficient use of hierarchically-organized routing
information.

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                           [Page 6]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


Given the size of the current Internet (on the order of 100
administrative domains) and the type of policies supported in IDPR
version 1 (access restrictions only), we believe that policy gateways
have adequate processing and memory resources to synthesize policy routes
and set up paths as well as to forward messages and participate in
intra-domain routing.  Meanwhile, we are developing autonomous route
servers and configuration servers, separate from policy gateways, so that
IDPR can accommodate larger numbers of administrative domains and
policies in the future.


3.3  IDPR MIB

These objects are used to control and manage an IDPR [11] implementation.

This MIB is broken into 10 sections.  The first section describes system
variables.  The remaining sections describe tables and individual IDPR
sub-protocols.


4  Object Definitions

               RFCxxxx-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

               IMPORTS
                    experimental, IpAddress, Counter, TimeTicks
                         FROM RFC-1155
                    OBJECT-TYPE
                         FROM RFC-1212;

               -- This MIB module uses the extended OBJECT-TYPE macro as
               -- defined in [9] The following types are included for
               -- enhancing readability:

               -- The BitField type is an OCTET STRING of four octets.
               -- The first octet contains bit positions 0-7.  The second
               -- octet contains bit positions 8-15.  The third octet
               -- contains bit positions 16-23.  The fourth octet contains
               -- bit positions 24-31.  The values of the octets depend
               -- upon the bits that are set that are being represented.

               BitField ::= OCTET STRING (Size 4)

               idpr           OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { experimental 28 }

          -- 5.1 IDPR System Object Definitions

               idprsys        OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { idpr 1 }

               idprAD         OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                           [Page 7]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                         "The AD identifier for the entity being queried."
                    ::= { idprsys 1 }

               idprId         OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The identifier of the entity."
                    ::= { idprsys 2 }

               idprType       OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    BitField
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The entity type as defined below.
                              Bit position 0 PG flag
                              Bit position 1 RS flag."
                    ::= { idprsys 3 }

               idprADRep      OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The identifier of the AD representative
                          as perceived by this entity."
                    ::= { idprsys 4 }

               idprUpTime     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    TimeTicks
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The amount of time since IDPR was last
                          initialized in TimeTicks (10 millisecond) units."
                    ::= { idprsys 5 }

               idprPolicyState    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER(0..255)
                    ACCESS    read-write
                    STATUS    optional
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "Reading from this object returns the current
                          policy state.  A gateway may allow policy states
                          to be bound to different source and transit policies.
                          Only the source and transit policies which may the
                          present policy state are active.  Writing to this
                          object sets a new policy state."
                    ::= { idprsys 6 }




R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                           [Page 8]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


          -- 5.2 IDPR CMTP Object Definitions

               idprcmtp       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { idpr 2 }

               idprcmtpVer    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    BitField
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The CMTP versions supported by this PG.
                              Bit Position 0 ==   Version 1
                              Bit Position 1 ==   Version 2
                              ...and so on...
                              Bit Position n ==   Version n+1
                          where n <= 31."
                    ::= { idprcmtp 1 }

               idprcmtpIns    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The total number of CMTP received by the entity."
                    ::= { idprcmtp 2 }

               idprcmtpOuts   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The total number of CMTP sent by the entity."
                    ::= { idprcmtp 3 }

               idprcmtpRetries     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The total number of CMTP retransmissions."
                    ::= { idprcmtp 4 }

               idprcmtpAckIns OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The total number of CMTP ACKs received."
                    ::= { idprcmtp 5 }

               idprcmtpAckOuts     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                           [Page 9]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                         "The total number of CMTP ACKs sent."
                    ::= { idprcmtp 6 }

               idprcmtpNakIns OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The total number of CMTP NAKs received."
                    ::= { idprcmtp 7 }

               idprcmtpNakOuts     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The total number of CMTP NAKs issued."
                    ::= { idprcmtp 8 }

               idprcmtpTimeouts    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The total number of CMTP timeouts."
                    ::= { idprcmtp 9 }

               idprcmtpUnkAuths    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The total number of CMTP protocol messages
                          received which contained an unrecognized
                          authentication type."
                    ::= { idprcmtp 10 }

               idprcmtpUnkProtos   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The total number of CMTP protocol messages
                          received which contained an invalid IDPR
                          sub-protocol number."
                    ::= { idprcmtp 11 }

               idprcmtpBadAuths    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The total number of CMTP protocol messages
                          received for which authentication failed."

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 10]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                    ::= { idprcmtp 12 }

               idprcmtpBadLengths  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The total number of CMTP protocol messages
                          received which contained invalid length fields."
                    ::= { idprcmtp 13 }

               idprcmtpBadTimes    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The total number of CMTP protocol messages
                          received with a bad timestamp."
                    ::= { idprcmtp 14 }



          -- 5.3 IDPR VGP Object Definitions

               idprvgp        OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { idpr 3 }

               idprvgpPer     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The default value for the up/down protocol
                          interval in milliseconds.  This object
                          corresponds to the vgp_per_sec configuration
                          parameter described in [12], but normalized
                          to millisecond units."
                    ::= { idprvgp 1 }

               idprvgpPGInt   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The retransmission interval in milliseconds
                          for acknowledged VGP message types.  This object
                          object corresponds to the vgp_int_usec system
                          configuration parameter divided by 1000, and
                          rounded up to the nearest millisecond."
                    ::= { idprvgp 2 }

               idprvgpPGRet   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 11]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of retransmissions to be sent for
                          acknowledged VGP message types before timing
                          them out.  This object corresponds to the
                          vgp_ret system configuration parameter [12]."
                    ::= { idprvgp 3 }

               idprvgpSTSInt  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The delay (hold time) in seconds from the time a
                          VG representative receives a PG connect message
                          iuntil it issues a PG status message for that VG.
                          For systems which do not support more than 2 PGs
                          per VG, this object is not applicable and should
                          return the value 0."
                    ::= { idprvgp 4 }

               idprvgpUpDownIns    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of up/down messages received."
                    ::= { idprvgp 5 }

               idprvgpUpDownInErrs    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of invalid up/down messages received.
                          Up/down messages improperly addressed are
                          tabulated by this object, along with other
                          generic errors."
                    ::= { idprvgp 6 }

               idprvgpUpDownOuts   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of up/down messages sent."
                    ::= { idprvgp 7 }

               idprvgpPGConIns     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    optional
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of PG connect messages received."
                    ::= { idprvgp 8 }

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 12]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993



               idprvgpPGConOuts    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    optional
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of PG connect messages sent.  This
                          object should return the value 0 if PG connect
                          meesages are not supported."
                    ::= { idprvgp 9 }

               idprvgpPGPlcyIns    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    optional
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of PG policy messages received."
                    ::= { idprvgp 10 }

               idprvgpPGPlcyOuts   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    optional
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of PG policy messages sent.  This
                          object should return the value 0 if PG policy
                          messages are not supported."
                    ::= { idprvgp 11 }

               idprvgpVGConIns     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of VG connect messages received."
                    ::= { idprvgp 12 }

               idprvgpVGConOuts    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of VG connect messages sent."
                    ::= { idprvgp 13 }

               idprvgpVGPlcyIns    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    optional
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of VG policy messages received."
                    ::= { idprvgp 14 }

               idprvgpVGPlcyOuts   OBJECT-TYPE

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 13]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    optional
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of VG policy messages sent. This
                          object should return the value 0 if VG policy
                          meesages are not supported."
                    ::= { idprvgp 15 }

               idprvgpPGTab   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    SEQUENCE OF IdprPGEntry
                    ACCESS    not-accessible
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The table of other known policy gateways."
                    ::= { idprvgp 16 }

               idprPGEntry    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    IdprPGEntry
                    ACCESS    not-accessible
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "Information for a single PG."
                    INDEX { idprPGAD, idprPGId }
                    ::= { idprvgpPGTab 1 }

               IdprPGEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
                    idprPGAD
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPGId
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPGStatus
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPGType
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPGTrans
                         Counter,
                    idprPGUpDownPer
                         INTEGER
               }

               idprPGAD       OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The AD identifier for the PG."
                    ::= { idprPGEntry 1 }

               idprPGId       OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 14]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                         "The entity identifier for the PG."
                    ::= { idprPGEntry 2 }

               idprPGStatus   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER {
                                up(1),
                                down(2)
                              }
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "Operational status of PG.  Reading this object
                          returns the operational state of a PG."
                    ::= { idprPGEntry 3 }

               idprPGType     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER {
                                adjacent(1),
                                neighbor(2),
                                peer(3)
                              }
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The type of PG entity"
                    ::= { idprPGEntry 4 }

               idprPGTrans    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of times a PG has transitioned state."
                    ::= { idprPGEntry 5 }

               idprPGUpDownPer     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "This object returns the negotiated (or default)
                          interval for exchanging up/down messages."
                    ::= { idprPGEntry 6 }

               idprvgpVGTab   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    SEQUENCE OF IdprVGEntry
                    ACCESS    not-accessible
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The table of known VGs"
                    ::= { idprvgp 17 }

               idprVGEntry    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    IdprVGEntry

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 15]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                    ACCESS    not-accessible
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "Information regarding a single VG."
                    INDEX { idprVGAdj, idprVGId }
                    ::= { idprvgpVGTab 1 }

               IdprVGEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
                    idprVGAdj
                         INTEGER,
                    idprVGId
                         INTEGER,
                    idprVGStatus
                         Counter,
                    idprVGVGRep
                         INTEGER
               }

               idprVGAdj      OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The adjacent AD of the VG."
                    ::= { idprVGEntry 1 }

               idprVGId       OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The entity identifier of the VG."
                    ::= { idprVGEntry 2 }

               idprVGStatus   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER {
                                up(1),
                                down(2)
                              }
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The operation status of the entity."
                    ::= { idprVGEntry 3 }

               idprVGVGRep    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The PG acting as the VG representative for the
                          VG as seen by this PG."
                    ::= { idprVGEntry 4 }


R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 16]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


               idprvgpPGMap   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    SEQUENCE OF IdprPGMapEntry
                    ACCESS    not-accessible
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "A table that returns the association (or mapping)
                          between PG and VG entities.  This table is used
                          to determine the VGs that a PG belongs to."
                    ::= { idprvgp 18 }

               idprPGMapEntry OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    IdprPGMapEntry
                    ACCESS    not-accessible
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "Information for a single VG."
                    INDEX { idprPGMapAD, idprPGMapId,
                            idprPGMapAdj, idprPGMapVG }
                    ::= { idprvgpPGMap 1 }

               IdprPGMapEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
                    idprPGMapAD
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPGMapId
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPGMapAdj
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPGMapVG
                         INTEGER
               }

               idprPGMapAD    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The AD of the PG."
                    ::= { idprPGMapEntry 1 }

               idprPGMapId    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The entity identifier of the PG."
                    ::= { idprPGMapEntry 2 }

               idprPGMapAdj   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The adjacent AD of the VG."
                    ::= { idprPGMapEntry 3 }

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 17]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993



              idprPGMapVG    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "A VG to which this PG belongs."
                    ::= { idprPGMapEntry 4 }



          -- 5.4 IDPR RID Object Definitions

               idprrid        OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { idpr 4 }

               idprridConfigPer     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The interval in seconds between the periodic
                          issuance of configuration updates."
                    ::= { idprrid 1 }

               idprridDynamicPer     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The interval in seconds between the periodic
                          issuance of dynamic message updates."
                    ::= { idprrid 2 }

               idprridInt     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The retransmission interval of configuration and
                          dynamic updates in a millisecond timescale."
                    ::= { idprrid 3 }

               idprridRet     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The maximum number of retransmission attempts of
                          configuration or dynamic updates by CTMP.  An
                          update which fails to be delivered in idprridRet
                          tries is declared undeliverable."
                    ::= { idprrid 4 }

               idprridTimNew  OBJECT-TYPE

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 18]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The maximum wait time in seconds before
                          generating a 'correcting' update as a result
                          of receiving an old update."
                    ::= { idprrid 5 }

               idprridConfigLif     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The lifetime of received configuration message
                          updates in seconds.  Previously received
                          configuration messages are invalidated when
                          the lifetime of the message expires."
                    ::= { idprrid 6 }

               idprridDynamicLif     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The lifetime of received dynamic message updates
                          in seconds.  Previously received dynamic messages
                          are invalidated when the lifetime of the message
                          expires."
                    ::= { idprrid 7 }

               idprridConfigIns    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of configuration message updates
                          received by the local entity."
                    ::= { idprrid 8 }

               idprridConfigOuts   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of configuration message updates
                          issued by the local entity.  Note that an request
                          to flood a config message update by the local
                          entity is recorded as a single message issuance
                          event.  Furthermore, transit forwarding of config
                          message updates which are issued by other entities
                          are not included in this counter."
                    ::= { idprrid 9 }


R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 19]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


               idprridDynamicIns   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of dynamic updates received by the
                          local Entity."
                    ::= { idprrid 10 }

               idprridDynamicOuts  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of dynamic updates issued by the local
                          entity.  Note that an attempt to flood a Dynamic
                          update by the local entity is recorded as a single
                          out message event.  Furthermore, transit forwarding
                          of Dynamic updates which are issued by other entities
                          are not recorded by this counter."
                    ::= { idprrid 11 }



          -- 5.5 IDPR RSQP Object Definitions

               idprrsqp       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { idpr 5 }

               idprrsqpReqIns OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of route request message received.
                          This object contains valid data only if the
                          route server functionality is supported."
                    ::= { idprrsqp 1 }

               idprrsqpResps OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of route responses returned by the
                          server.  This object contains valid data only
                          if the route server functionality is supported."
                    ::= { idprrsqp 2 }

               idprrsqpNegResps   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of negative route responses returned"

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 20]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                    ::= { idprrsqp 3 }

               idprrsqpReqInt  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The retransmission interval in seconds for route
                          server requests"
                    ::= { idprrsqp 4 }

               idprrsqpReqRet  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of retransmissions for route server
                          requests before timing out the request"
                    ::= { idprrsqp 5 }

               idprrsqpRidReqIns  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of requests received by a route server
                          for RID configuration or dynamic information."
                    ::= { idprrsqp 6 }

               idprrsqpRidReqOuts OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of responses issued by a route server
                          for RID configuration or dynamic information."
                    ::= { idprrsqp 7 }

               idprrsqpRSTab   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    SEQUENCE OF IdprRSEntry
                    ACCESS    not-accessible
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The table of other known route servers."
                    ::= { idprrsqp 8 }

               idprRSEntry    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    IdprRSEntry
                    ACCESS    not-accessible
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "Information for a single RS."
                    INDEX { idprRSAD, idprRSId }
                    ::= { idprrsqpRSTab 1 }

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 21]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993



               IdprRSEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
                    idprRSAD
                         INTEGER,
                    idprRSId
                         INTEGER,
                    idprRSSend
                         INTEGER,
                    idprRSAdvert
                         INTEGER,
                    idprRSLastSend
                         TimeTicks,
                    idprRSLastRecv
                         TimeTicks
               }

               idprRSAD       OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The AD identifier for the RS."
                    ::= { idprRSEntry 1 }

               idprRSId       OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The entity identifier of the RS."
                    ::= { idprRSEntry 2 }

               idprRSSend    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER {
                                ignore(0),
                                send(1)
                              }
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The value of this field indicates whether or not
                          the RS should be included in the list of RSs to
                          which updates are sent."
                    ::= { idprRSEntry 3 }

               idprRSAdvert   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER {
                                ignore(0),
                                advert(1)
                              }
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The value of this field indicates whether or not

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 22]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                          the RS should be included in the list of RSs
                          which are advertized from this AD."
                    ::= { idprRSEntry 4 }

               idprRSLastSend OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    TimeTicks
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The last time an update was sent to this RS."
                    ::= { idprRSEntry 5 }

               idprRSLastRecv OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    TimeTicks
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The last time an update was received from this RS."
                    ::= { idprRSEntry 6 }



          -- 5.6 IDPR PSP Object Definitions

               idprpsp        OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { idpr 6 }

               idprpspInt     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The retransmission interval for path setup
                          messages, in units of seconds."
                    ::= { idprpsp 1 }

               idprpspRet     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of retransmissions of a path setup
                          message before the message is declared
                          undeliverable."
                    ::= { idprpsp 2 }

               idprpspSetupIns     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of path setup messages received
                          by a PG."
                    ::= { idprpsp 3 }


R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 23]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


               idprpspSetupOuts    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of path setup messages issued
                          by a PG."
                    ::= { idprpsp 4 }

               idprpspTeardownIns  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of path teardown messages received
                          by a PG."
                    ::= { idprpsp 5 }

               idprpspTeardownOuts OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of path teardown messages issued
                          by a PG."
                    ::= { idprpsp 6 }

               idprpspRefuseIns    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of path refuse messages received
                          by a PG."
                    ::= { idprpsp 7 }

               idprpspRefuseOuts   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of path refuse messages issued
                          by a PG."
                    ::= { idprpsp 8 }

               idprpspAcceptIns    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of path accept messages received
                          by a PG."
                    ::= { idprpsp 9 }


R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 24]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


               idprpspAcceptOuts   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of path accept messages issued
                          by a PG."
                    ::= { idprpsp 10 }

               idprpspRepairIns    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of path repair messages received
                          by a PG."
                    ::= { idprpsp 11 }

               idprpspRepairOuts   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of path repair messages issued
                          by a PG."
                    ::= { idprpsp 12 }

               idprpspErrorIns     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of path error messages received
                          by a PG."
                    ::= { idprpsp 13 }

               idprpspErrorOuts    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of path error messages issued
                          by a PG."
                    ::= { idprpsp 14 }

               idprpspPathTab OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    SEQUENCE OF IdprPathEntry
                    ACCESS    not-accessible
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The table IDPR paths."
                    ::= { idprpsp 15 }

               idprPathEntry  OBJECT-TYPE

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 25]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                    SYNTAX    IdprPathEntry
                    ACCESS    not-accessible
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "Information for a single IDPR path."
                    INDEX { idprPathAD, idprPathEnt, idprPathId }
                    ::= { idprpspPathTab 1 }

               IdprPathEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
                    idprPathAD
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathEnt
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathId
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathDst
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathPrevPGAD
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathPrevPGId
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathPrevVGAD
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathPrevVGId
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathNextPGAD
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathNextPGId
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathNextVGAD
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathNextVGId
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathRefCnt
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathState
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathMsgs
                         Counter,
                    idprPathMsgsMax
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathBytes
                         Counter,
                    idprPathBytesMax
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathExpire
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathAuth
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathVer
                         BitField,
                    idprPathTos
                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathUCI

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 26]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                         INTEGER,
                    idprPathTrType
                         INTEGER
               }

               idprPathAD     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The administrative domain of the PG which
                          originated the path."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 1 }

               idprPathEnt    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The entity identifier of the PG which
                          originated the path."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 2 }

               idprPathId     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The unique identifier assigned to a path
                          by the originating PG."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 3 }

               idprPathDst    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The destination or terminating AD for the path."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 4 }

               idprPathPrevPGAD OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The AD of the previous hop PG.  If a path entered
                          through another PG in the same domain, the value
                          returned by this object will be the same as the AD
                          for the PG being queried."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 5 }

               idprPathPrevPGId     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 27]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The entity identifier of the previous hop PG."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 6 }

               idprPathPrevVGAD    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The AD of the previous hop VG.  This object
                          refers to the AD of entry VG, which corresponds
                          to the AD immediately before the current AD
                          along a path."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 7 }

               idprPathPrevVGId    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The identifier of the previous hop VG."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 8 }

               idprPathNextPGAD OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The AD of the next hop PG.  If a path is exiting
                          through another PG in the same domain, the value
                          returned by this object will be the same as the AD
                          for the PG being queried."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 9 }

               idprPathNextPGId     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The entity identifier of the next hop PG."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 10 }

               idprPathNextVGAD    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The AD of the next hop VG.  This object refers
                          to the AD of the exit VG, which corresponds to
                          the AD after the current AD along a path."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 11 }

               idprPathNextVGId    OBJECT-TYPE

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 28]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The identifier of the next hop VG."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 12 }

               idprPathRefCnt  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of address map entries referencing
                          a path."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 13 }

               idprPathState  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER {
                         idle (1),        -- the path is no longer being used
                         start (2),       -- a setup request has been received
                         setup (3),       -- a setup has been sent
                         acceptwait (4),  -- an ACK has been received
                         active (5),      -- the accept has been received
                         dying (6)        -- teardown has been received/sent
                    }
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The current state of the path as enumerated above."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 14 }

               idprPathMsgs   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of messages (i.e., packets) that has
                          been forwarded on this path."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 15 }

               idprPathMsgsMax     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The maximum number of data messages
                          (i.e., packets) that can be forwarded before
                          a path expires."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 16 }

               idprPathBytes  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 29]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of bytes of data forwarded through
                          a path thus far."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 17 }

               idprPathBytesMax    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The total allowable number of bytes of data
                          that can be forwarded on a path before the
                          path expires."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 18 }

               idprPathExpire OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The amount of time remaining (in seconds) before
                          a path expires."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 19 }

               idprPathAuth   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The authentication protocol used for a path."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 20 }

               idprPathVer    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    BitField
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The version of the IDPR data encapsulation protocol
                          supported by a path.
                              Bit Position 0 ==   Version 1
                              Bit Position 1 ==   Version 2
                              ...and so on...
                              Bit Position n ==   Version n+1
                          where n <= 31."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 21 }

               -- The idprPathTos and idprPathUCI objects were originally
               -- specified with a syntax of OCTET STRING (Size 8).  The
               -- syntax has been changed to INTEGER (0..255), because we
               -- assume that a path is uniquely associated with only one
               -- TOS or UCI value.  However, the value 0 is special and
               -- denotes that a path supports traffic regardless of TOS
               -- or UCI specifications.


R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 30]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


               idprPathTos    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER (0..255)
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The type of service (TOS) associated with a path.
                          Only packets with a matching the TOS are
                          forwarded through the path, with one exception.
                          A TOS value of 0 indicate that a path supports
                          all types of service, regardless of specification.

                          If a path is used to transport IP packets, this
                          object refers to the 8-bit binary-encoded TOS
                          field near the beginning of the IP header."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 22 }

               idprPathUCI    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER (0..255)
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The user class identifier (UCI) associated with
                          the path.  Only packets matching the UCI returned
                          by this object are transported over the path.  A
                          value of 0 indicates that a path supports all user
                          classes, regardless of specification.  A non-zero
                          value indicates that only packets matching the
                          UCI are capable of using the path."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 23 }

               idprPathTrType OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER (0..255)
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The traffic type associated with the path.
                          Only packets with a matching traffic type are
                          transported over the path, with one exception.
                          A value of 0 indicates that a path supports all
                          traffic types, regardless of specification.
                          A non-zero value indicates that only packets
                          matching the traffic type are capable of using
                          the path.

                          If a path is used to transport IP packets, this
                          object refers to the traffic type encoded as
                          specified in IP option 144 (decimal)."
                    ::= { idprPathEntry 24 }



          -- 5.7 IDPR Data Object Definitions

               idprdata       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { idpr 7 }

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 31]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993



               idprdataVer    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    BitField
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The versions of the data encapsulation protocol
                          supported by a PG.
                              Bit Position 0 == Version 1
                              Bit Position 1 == Version 2
                              ...and so on...
                              Bit Position n == Version n+1
                         where n <= 31."
                    ::= { idprdata 1 }

               idprdataErrs   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The total number of messages received which
                          could not be processed."
                    ::= { idprdata 2 }

               idprdataUnkPaths    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The total number of data messages received by
                          this entity which referenced an unknown path."
                    ::= { idprdata 3 }

               idprdataUnkProtos   OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of data packets received that had an
                          invalid protocol field.  Each IDPR data message
                          has an eight bit field which specifies the network
                          layer protocol carried in the data message; e.g.,
                          IP is one possible network layer protocol type."
                    ::= { idprdata 4 }

               idprdataBadLengths  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of data packets received which had an
                          invalid length field."
                    ::= { idprdata 5 }


R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 32]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


               idprdataBadAuths    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    Counter
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The number of data packets received which failed
                          authentication, if authentication is used."
                    ::= { idprdata 6 }



          -- 5.8 IDPR Address Mapping Table Object Definitions

               idpraddr       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { idpr 8 }

               idpraddrTab    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    SEQUENCE OF IdprAddrEntry
                    ACCESS    not-accessible
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The  address   mapping  table   from  source  and
                         destination addresses to a particular IDPR path."
                    ::= { idpraddr 1 }

               idpraddrEntry  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    IdprAddrEntry
                    ACCESS    not-accessible
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "Information for a single IDPR Address Map."
                    INDEX {   idpraddrSrc, idpraddrDst, idpraddrTos,
                              idpraddrProto, idpraddrSrcPort,
                              idpraddrDstPort, idpraddrTrType }
                    ::= { idpraddrTab 1 }

               IdprAddrEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
                    idpraddrSrc
                         IpAddress,
                    idpraddrDst
                         IpAddress,
                    idpraddrSrcMask
                         IpAddress,
                    idpraddrDstMask
                         IpAddress,
                    idpraddrTos
                         INTEGER,
                    idpraddrProto
                         INTEGER,
                    idpraddrSrcPort
                         INTEGER,
                    idpraddrDstPort
                         INTEGER,
                    idpraddrUCI
                         INTEGER,

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 33]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                    idpraddrTrType
                         INTEGER,
                    idpraddrPathAD
                         INTEGER,
                    idpraddrPathEnt
                         INTEGER,
                    idpraddrPathId
                         INTEGER,
                    idpraddrState
                         INTEGER
               }

               idpraddrSrc    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    IpAddress
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The source address for the address map entry."
                    ::= { idpraddrEntry 1 }

               idpraddrDst    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    IpAddress
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The destination address for the address map entry"
                    ::= { idpraddrEntry 2 }

               idpraddrSrcMask     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    IpAddress
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The source address mask for the address map entry."
                    ::= { idpraddrEntry 3}

               idpraddrDstMask     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    IpAddress
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The destination address mask for the address
                          map entry."
                    ::= { idpraddrEntry 4 }

               idpraddrTos    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER (0..255)
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The TOS for the address map entry."
                    ::= { idpraddrEntry 5}

               idpraddrProto  OBJECT-TYPE

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 34]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The IP protocol for the address map entry."
                    ::= { idpraddrEntry 6 }

               idpraddrSrcPort     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The higher layer (transport) protocol source port
                          for the address map entry."
                    ::= { idpraddrEntry 7 }

               idpraddrDstPort     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The higher layer (transport) protocol destination
                          port for the address map entry."
                    ::= { idpraddrEntry 8 }

               idpraddrUCI OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER (0..255)
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The user class identifier associated with an
                          address map.."
                    ::= { idpraddrEntry 9 }

               idpraddrTrType OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER (0..255)
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The traffic type IP option associated with the
                          address map.  The traffic type specification is
                          an abstract integer tag which is used to associate
                          user data packets of a given type with a path."
                    ::= { idpraddrEntry 10 }

               idpraddrPathAD OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The AD of the path this address map entry uses."
                    ::= { idpraddrEntry 11 }

               idpraddrPathEnt     OBJECT-TYPE

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 35]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The entity for the path this address map entry uses."
                    ::= { idpraddrEntry 12 }

               idpraddrPathId OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The path identifier associated with the address
                           map."
                    ::= { idpraddrEntry 13 }

               idpraddrState  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER {
                         idle (1),      -- no request pending, no path assigned
                         waiting (2),   -- request pending, no path assigned
                         active (3)     -- path assigned
                    }
                    ACCESS    read-only
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The state of the address map entry.  An address
                          map is in effect only when the entry is in the
                          active(3) state."
                    ::= { idpraddrEntry 14 }



          -- 5.9 Source Policy Table

               idprsrcplcy    OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { idpr 9 }

               idprsrcplcyTab OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    SEQUENCE OF IdprSrcPlcyEntry
                    ACCESS    not-accessible
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "Table of source policies defined for this AD."
                    ::= { idprsrcplcy 1 }

               idprSrcPlcyEntry    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    IdprSrcPlcyEntry
                    ACCESS    not-accessible
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "Table entry for source policies for this AD."
                    INDEX { idprSrcPlcyId }
                    ::= { idprsrcplcyTab 1 }

               IdprSrcPlcyEntry ::= SEQUENCE {

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 36]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                    idprSrcPlcyId
                         INTEGER,
                    idprSrcPlcyStatus
                         INTEGER,
                    idprSrcPlcyInfoSyntax
                         INTEGER,
                    idprSrcPlcyInfo
                         DisplayString
               }

               idprSrcPlcyId  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-write
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The identifier of the source policy."
                    ::= { idprSrcPlcyEntry 1 }

               idprSrcPlcyStatus     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER {
                                active(1),
                                inactive(2)
                              }
                    ACCESS    read-write
                    STATUS    optional
                    DESCRIPTION
                          "Status of the source policy.  A source policy
                           may be defined but may not be currently active.
                           An inactive source policy is ignored during
                           path computation.

                           For implementations which support table write
                           operations, writing the value inactive(2)
                           to a defined source policy causes the policy
                           to be ignored.  Changing the state to active(1)
                           re-enables the source policy."
                    ::= { idprSrcPlcyEntry 2 }

               idprSrcPlcyInfoSyntax     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER {
                                displaystring(1),
                                opaque(2),
                                other(3)
                              }
                    ACCESS    read-write
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "This object specifies the syntax of the
                          idprSrcPlcyInfo object.  If the syntax is
                          displaystring(1), the policy information is
                          returned as a DisplayString following the
                          syntax recommended by the IDPR configuration
                          guide.  The value opaque(2) indicates that
                          the ASN.1 syntax is wrapped inside the Opaque

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 37]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                          type.  The value other(3) is used for all
                          other syntaxes."
                    ::= { idprSrcPlcyEntry 3 }

               idprSrcPlcyInfo     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    DisplayString
                    ACCESS    read-write
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "Source policy specification.  A new source policy is
                          supported by writing the new policy specification
                          to this object."
                    ::= { idprSrcPlcyEntry 4 }



          -- 5.10 Transit Policy Table

               idprtrnplcy    OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { idpr 10 }

               idprtrnplcyTab OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    SEQUENCE OF IdprTrnPlcyEntry
                    ACCESS    not-accessible
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "Table of transit policies known to this AD.  This
                          table contains both transit policies defined
                          locally, as well as those received from other
                          domains via configuration messages."
                    ::= { idprtrnplcy 1 }

               idprTrnPlcyEntry    OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    IdprTrnPlcyEntry
                    ACCESS    not-accessible
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "Table Entry for Transit Policies for this AD."
                    INDEX { idprTrnPlcyAD, idprTrnPlcyId }
                    ::= { idprtrnplcyTab 1 }

               IdprTrnPlcyEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
                    idprTrnPlcyAD
                         INTEGER,
                    idprTrnPlcyEnt
                         INTEGER,
                    idprTrnPlcyId
                         INTEGER,
                    idprTrnPlcyStatus
                         INTEGER,
                    idprTrnPlcyInfoSyntax
                         INTEGER,
                    idprTrnPlcyInfo
                         DisplayString
               }

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 38]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993



               idprTrnPlcyAD  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-write
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The AD from which the transit policy is
                          advertised from."
                    ::= { idprTrnPlcyEntry 1 }

               idprTrnPlcyEnt OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-write
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The entity which advertised the transit policy."
                    ::= { idprTrnPlcyEntry 2 }

               idprTrnPlcyId  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER
                    ACCESS    read-write
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The identifier of the transit policy."
                    ::= { idprTrnPlcyEntry 3 }

               idprTrnPlcyStatus     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER {
                                active(1),
                                inactive(2)
                              }
                    ACCESS    read-write
                    STATUS    optional
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "Status of transit policy.  Transit policies
                          which are used for route computation purposes
                          are marked as active.

                          Normally, transit policies received from remote
                          domains are marked as active.  However, transit
                          which are issued by the local domain, may be in
                          either the active or inactive state.  An inactive
                          transit policy is not advertised and is not used
                          for route computation.

                          For implementations which support table write
                          operations, writing the value inactive(2) to a
                          defined transit policy puts the policy into a
                          state where it is no longer advertised.

                          Depending on implementation, changing the status
                          to inactive(2) may not necessarily remove the
                          entry from the transit policy table.  Changing
                          the state to active(1) may re-enable the transit

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 39]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                          policy."
                    ::= { idprTrnPlcyEntry 4 }

               idprTrnPlcyInfoSyntax     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    INTEGER {
                                displaystring(1),
                                opaque(2),
                                other(3)
                              }
                    ACCESS    read-write
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "This object specifies the syntax of the
                          idprTrnPlcyInfo object.  If the syntax is
                          displaystring(1), the policy information is
                          returned as a DisplayString following the
                          syntax recommended by the IDPR configuration
                          guide.  The value opaque(2) indicates that
                          the ASN.1 syntax is wrapped inside the Opaque
                          type.  The value other(3) is used for all
                          other syntaxes."
                    ::= { idprTrnPlcyEntry 5 }

               idprTrnPlcyInfo     OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX    DisplayString
                    ACCESS    read-write
                    STATUS    mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "Transit policy specification.  A new transit policy
                          is supported by writing the new policy specification
                          to this object.  Reading from this object will
                          return the current specification."
                    ::= { idprTrnPlcyEntry 6 }

               END


5  Trap Messages

This section describes the trap messages that are issued by the network
management system.


               RFCxxxx-TRAP DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

               IMPORTS
                    experimental, IpAddress, Counter, TimeTicks
                         FROM RFC-1155
                    OBJECT-TYPE
                         FROM RFC-1212
                    TRAP-TYPE
                         FROM RFC-1215;

               idprADRepChange      TRAP-TYPE

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 40]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                    ENTERPRISE      idpr
                    VARIABLES {
                         idprAD,                -- AD and id of entity
                         idprId,                --   issuing trap message.
                         idprADRep              -- New AD representative.
                    }
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "This trap is issued when the AD representative
                          for a domain has changed.  It is issued in
                          response to the local domain becoming partitioned."
                    ::= 1

               idprPGStateChange    TRAP-TYPE
                    ENTERPRISE      idpr
                    VARIABLES {
                         idprAD,                -- AD and id of entity
                         idprId,                --   issuing trap message.
                         idprPGAD,              -- AD and id of remote entity
                         idprPGId,              --   affected by state change.
                         idprPGType             -- PG type.
                         idprPGStatus,          -- New PG reachability state.
                         idprPGTrans,           -- Number of transitions.
                    }
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "This trap is issued when the VGP Pair-PG protocol
                          has declared a peer entity as having transitioned
                          between reachable and unreachable states.  These
                          peer entities may be in the same domain (i.e.,
                          neighbor or peer entities according to IDPR
                          definitions) or in an adjoining domain (i.e.,
                          adjacent entities)."
                    ::= 2

               idprVGRepChange      TRAP-TYPE
                    ENTERPRISE      idpr
                    VARIABLES {
                         idprAD,                -- AD and id of entity
                         idprId,                --   issuing trap message.
                         idprVGAdj,             -- VG identifer for which
                         idprVGId,              --   there is a new AD rep.
                         idprVGVGRep            -- New VG representative.
                    }
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "This trap is issued when the VG representative,
                          has changed, and is issued only if the IDPR
                          implementation supports multiple peer PGs in a VG."
                    ::= 3

               idprpspError         TRAP-TYPE
                    ENTERPRISE      idpr
                    VARIABLES {
                         idprAD,                -- AD and id of entity
                         idprId,                --   issuing trap message.
                         idprPathAD,            -- Path identifier

R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 41]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


                         idprPathEnt,           --    which experienced
                         idprPathId             --    the path error.
                    }
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "This trap message is issued when a path
                          encounters an abnormal, un-recoverable error
                          resulting in tear down of the path.  The
                          typical cause of such errors include one or
                          more PGs along a path becoming unreachable.

                          Tear down of paths due to path lifetime or
                          usage expirations are considered to be normal
                          events and do not result in trap messages
                          being issued."
                    ::= 4

               idprtrnPlcyExpired   TRAP-TYPE
                    ENTERPRISE      idpr
                    VARIABLES {
                         idprAD,                -- AD and id of entity
                         idprId,                --   issuing trap message.
                         idprTrnPlcyAD,         -- Domain and entity that
                         idprTrnPlcyEnt,        --   issued the transit policy.
                         idprTrnPlcyId          -- Transit policy number.
                    }
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "A RID configuration message has expired.
                          Failure to receive periodic RID configuration
                          messages imply that a domain may no longer
                          be reachable or that the transit policies
                          associated with it are no longer valid."
                    ::= 5

               END





















R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 42]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


6  Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.


7  Acknowledgements

We would like to acknowledge the assistance of all the members of the
IDPR Working Group and particularly the following individuals:


         Ken Carlberg, SAIC
         Dan Lee, SRI
         Mark Sleeper, Sparta
         Martha Steenstrup, BBN


8  References

[1] V. Cerf, IAB Recommendations for the Development of Internet Network
Management Standards, Internet Working Group Request for Comments 1052.
Network Information Center, SRI International, Menlo Park, California,
April 1988.

[2] V. Cerf, Report of the Second Ad Hoc Network Management Review Group,
Internet Working Group Request for Comments 1109.  Network Information
Center, SRI International, Menlo Park, California, August 1989.

[3] M.T. Rose and K. McCloghrie, Structure and Identification of
Management Information for TCP/IP-based internets, Internet Working Group
Request for Comments 1155.  Network Information Center, SRI
International, Menlo Park, California, May 1990.

[4] K. McCloghrie and M.T. Rose, Management Information Base for Network
Management of TCP/IP-based internets, Internet Working Group Request for
Comments 1156.  Network Information Center, SRI International, Menlo
Park, California, May 1990.

[5] J.D. Case, M.S. Fedor, M.L. Schoffstall, and J.R. Davin, Simple
Network Management Protocol, Internet Working Group Request for Comments
1157.  Network Information Center, SRI International, Menlo Park,
California, May 1990.

[6] M.T. Rose (editor), Management Information Base for Network
Management of TCP/IP-based internets, Internet Working Group Request for
Comments 1158, Network Information Center, SRI International, Menlo Park,
California, May 1990.

[7] Information processing systems - Open Systems Interconnection -
Specification of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1), International
Organization for Standardization.  International Standard 8824, December
1987.



R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 43]

Internet Draft                     IDPR MIB                    March 1993


[8] Information processing systems - Open Systems Interconnection -
Specification of Basic Encoding Rules for Abstract Notation One (ASN.1),
International Organization for Standardization.  International Standard
8825, December 1987.

[9] M.T. Rose, K. McCloghrie (editors), Towards Concise MIB Definitions,
Internet Working Group Request for Comments 1212, Network Information
Center, SRI International, Menlo Park, California, September 1990.

[10] M. Lepp and M. Steenstrup, An Architecture for Inter-Domain Policy
Routing, Internet Draft, July 1990.

[11] ORWG, Inter-Domain Policy Routing Protocol Specification and Usage,
Internet Draft, July 1991.

[12] H. Bowns and M. Steenstrup, Inter-Domain Policy Routing
Configuration and Usage, Internet Draft, July 1991.


9  Editor's Address

         IDPR Working Group
         c/o Robert A. Woodburn
         Sparta, Inc.
         7926 Jones Branch Drive
         Suite 900
         McLean, VA 22102-3303
         (703) 448-0210

         EMAIL: idpr-wg@bbn.com or woody@sparta.com

























R. A. Woodburn, Editor                                          [Page 44]
