

Traffic Engineering Working Group          Ken Owens (Erlang Technology) 
Internet Draft                            Vishal Sharma (Metanoia, Inc.) 
Expiration Date: November 2002           Mathew Oommen (Optical Datacom) 
                                    
                                                                         
                                                                         
                                                                         
                                                                         
                                                                May 2002 
                                                                         
 
 
Network Survivability Considerations for Traffic Engineered IP Networks 
 
              draft-owens-te-network-survivability-02.txt 
 
Status of this Memo 
  
This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all 
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.  
 
Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task 
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups. Note that other groups 
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.  
 
Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months 
and may be updated, replaced, or obsolete by other documents at any 
time. It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material 
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."  
 
The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at 
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt  
 
The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at 
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html. 
 
 
Abstract 
 
Network survivability refers to the capability of the network to 
maintain service continuity in the presence of faults within the 
network [1]. This can be accomplished by recovering quickly from 
network failures quickly and maintaining the required QoS for existing 
services. With the increasing sophistication of network technologies, 
survivability capabilities are becoming available at multiple layers, 
allowing for protection and restoration to occur at any layer of the 
network. This makes it important to: scrutinize the recovery features 
of different network layers, understand the pros and cons of performing 
recovery at each layer, and assess how the interactions between layers 
impact network survivability. With these objectives in mind, this draft 
examines the considerations for network survivability at different 
layers of the network. 
 
 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                       1 
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
Table of Contents                                                 Page 
                                                                   
Abstract                                                           
1. Introduction                                                   2 
2. Overview of Survivability in Traffic Engineered Networks       3 
3. Purpose of This Document                                       5 
4. Motivation                                                     5 
5. Network Survivability Objectives                               6 
6. Network Survivability Parameter Considerations                 7 
   6.1 Time-scale of Operations                                   8 
   6.2 Resource Efficiency                                        8 
   6.3 Signaling                                                  8 
   6.4 Recovery Granularity                                       8 
   6.5 QoS Granularity                                            8 
   6.6 Coverage                                                   9 
   6.7 Fault Monitoring and Reporting                             9 
   6.8 Interactions with Other Layers                             9 
7. Network Survivability Layer Considerations                     9 
   7.1 Optical Layer                                              9 
   7.2 SONET/SDH Layer                                            11 
   7.3 ATM and/or MPLS Layer                                      12 
   7.4 IP Layer                                                   14 
   7.5 Transport Layers                                           15 
   7.6 Coordination between Layers                                15 
8. Service Provider Considerations                                17 
9. Security Considerations                                        19 
10. Acknowledgements                                              19 
11. References                                                    19 
12. Authors∆ Addresses                                            20 
 
 
 
1. Introduction 
 
With the increasing demand to carry mission critical traffic, real-time 
traffic, and other high priority traffic over the public Internet [1], 
network survivability has become an issue of great concern for the 
Internet community. As network technologies continue to improve and 
converge, protection and restoration schemes are being developed at 
multiple layers.  
 
At the lowest layer of the stack, optical networks are now becoming 
capable of providing dynamic ring and mesh restoration functionality as 
well as traditional 1+1 or 1:1 protection functionality. A considerable 
body of work in the research community has dealt with the capacity and 
efficiency considerations inherent in the layout of optical lightpaths 
for traffic protection, and work is ongoing [2],[3],[4],[5], [7] to 
develop a signaling framework to support even more sophisticated 
 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                       2
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
restoration features at the optical layer for future IP-over-WDM 
networks. Moving up the layered stack, the SONET/SDH layer provides 
survivability capability with automatic protection switching (APS), as 
well as self-healing ring and mesh architectures. A similar 
functionality is provided by the ATM Layer, with work ongoing to also 
provide such functionality using technologies such as MPLS [8]. At the 
IP layer, rerouting is used to restore service continuity following 
link and node outages. Rerouting at the IP layer, however, occurs after 
a period of routing convergence, which may require from a few seconds 
to several minutes to complete.  
 
Another important aspect of multi-layer survivability is that the 
various technologies operating at different layers provide protection 
and restoration capabilities at different temporal granularities (i.e., 
time scales), ranging from a few tens of milliseconds to minutes, at 
different bandwidth granularities (i.e., from packet-level to 
wavelength level), ranging from a few kilobits per second to hundreds 
of gigabits per second, and at different QoS granularities, ranging 
from aggregated traffic classes (e.g., diffserv classes) to individual 
traffic streams/flows (e.g., per VC or per-IP flow). It is, therefore, 
a challenging task to combine in a coordinated manner the different 
restoration capabilities available across the layers to ensure that 
certain network survivability goals are met for the different services  
supported by the network. 
 
 
2. Overview of Survivability in Traffic Engineered Networks 
 
Traditional IP networks supported only one class of service, the best-
effort class, and focused primarily on connectivity. Network 
survivability in such an environment merely involved the restoration of 
network connectivity, which was provided by layer 3 re-routing alone 
and was acceptable, since this was all that was needed.  -A concern 
with relying on the routing algorithms alone was the  time that the 
routing algorithms took to converge and restore service could be 
significant, on the order of several seconds to minutes, causing a 
disruption of service in the interim. Even though  this was not a 
concern with best-effort traffic, it does become a significant concern 
when the aim is to provide   applications requiring highly reliable 
service, where the recovery times must be in the order of tens of 
milliseconds.  
 
With the increasing need for explicit engineering of network traffic 
loads, however, it has become imperative for traffic engineering 
mechanisms to take network survivability considerations into account. 
An important objective of contemporary and future Internet traffic 
engineering, in fact, is to facilitate reliable network operations by 
providing mechanisms that enhance network integrity and by adopting 
policies that accommodate network survivability [1]. This is important 
 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                       3
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
for two reasons. First,  to minimize the vulnerability of the network 
to service outages arising from errors, faults, and failures that occur 
within the infrastructure. Second,  to optimize the performance of 
operational IP networks by rapidly converging to a stable state while 
not even letting TCP stacks know about the failure. 
 
Network faults, be they link outages (fiber cuts, transmitter failures, 
etc.) or node outages (mis-configuration, processor or line card 
failures, power glitches, power supply failures, etc.), will continue 
to be a fact of life that network engineering will have to accommodate. 
Whereas in the past this only meant ensuring that network connectivity 
was restored following an outage, in current networks it means ensuring 
that network connectivity  is restored within certain constraints and  
performance levels so as not to affect the services transported. 
Thus, any traffic-engineered network that carries critical, high-
priority traffic needs to be resilient to faults. Indeed, an engineered 
network that is not survivable cannot be said to be truly traffic 
engineered, since faults in the network elements could create traffic 
imbalances that the network is not geared to handle, thereby severely 
compromising the performance of the network. 
 
A major objective of Internet traffic engineering is to enhance the 
performance of an operational network at both the traffic and resource 
levels. This is accomplished by addressing traffic-oriented performance 
requirements, while utilizing network resources efficiently, reliably, 
and economically. Traffic oriented performance measures include delay, 
delay variation, packet loss, and goodput [1]. The scope and nature of 
survivability required in different parts of the network should form an 
integral part of the traffic engineering process model. In fact, 
survivability requirements would influence the first (definition of 
relevant control policies), third (analysis of network state to 
characterize traffic workload), and fourth (performance optimization of 
the network) phases of the TE process model defined in Section 3 of 
[1]. 
 
Incorporating survivability requirements into traffic engineering 
computations and the protection of traffic at different layers of the 
network is useful for a number of reasons: 
 
(i) The most important is its ability to ensure stable network 
operation, which is a major consideration in real-time network 
performance optimization.  A major challenge for Internet traffic 
engineering today is to Ùexpect the unexpected.ˆ In other words,  
integrate automated control capabilities that can adapt quickly and at 
a reasonable cost to significant changes in network state, while 
maintaining network stability [1]. Clearly, this challenge cannot be 
met without accounting for potential network outages, and including 
them in - traffic engineering calculations. 
 
 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                       4
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
(ii) Survivability considerations also impact the manner in which 
traffic is groomed at different layers (more on this in Sections 5 and 
6), and the manner in which it is mapped to the underlying physical or 
logical topology at different layers of the network. An important 
function of TE is to control the distribution of traffic across the 
network, a task that is strongly influenced by the manner in which 
traffic is protected at different layers, and by how much traffic is 
protected at different network layers. An objective could be to provide 
adequate protection schemes at layer 0 that can classify and treat 
different traffic types, and dynamically assign the traffic to a 
specific protection scheme. This would ensure that, as much as 
possible, the higher layers need never know about the transport 
failures. 
 
(iii) Yet another advantage is the ability to increase network 
reliability by enabling a faster response to faults and outages than is 
possible with a single layer alone (in particular, than is possible 
with Layer 3 or IP layer rerouting alone). 
 
(iv) Protection at different layers gives the provider the flexibility 
to choose the granularity at which traffic is protected, and to also 
choose the specific types of traffic that are protected. 
 
(v) A protection mechanism at different layers (for example, the 
optical [3] and MPLS [9] layers) could enable IP traffic to be put 
directly over WDM optical channels, without an intervening SONET layer, 
thereby facilitating the construction of IP-over-WDM networks. 
 
 
3. Purpose of This Document 
 
The purpose of this document is to examine the survivability features 
and characteristics of different network layers, point out the 
advantages and limitations of each, consider how they impact network 
traffic engineering, and highlight service provider concerns and 
requirements and areas where further work may be needed, either in 
terms of independently extending the functionality of the existing 
layers or in terms of developing inter-layer coordination mechanisms to 
facilitate fast and efficient network protection. The document is 
intended to expose those areas pertaining to network survivability that 
require further work by the Internet community, and to serve as a basis 
for the Traffic Engineering Working Group design team to make 
recommendations to other Working Groups about network survivability 
issues that require further consideration in the respective Working 
Groups. 
 
 
4.Motivation 
   
 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                       5
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
The need for network survivability and for open standards in 
protection/restoration at different network layers arises because of 
the following:  
 
-- Lower layer mechanisms (Optical Layer and SONET/SDH Layer) have no 
visibility into higher layer operations (for example protocol errors, 
priority identification, and reroute calculation).  Thus, while they 
may provide link protection for example, they cannot easily provide 
node protection unless these optical devices speak the same Ùlanguageˆ. 
 
-- Optical Layer or SONET/SDH Layer mechanisms may initially be limited 
to ring topologies and may not always include mesh protection. 
 
-- MPLS/ATM Layer may provide protocol-level node survivability, but 
may not be able to detect physical layer impairments. 
 
-- IP Layer rerouting may be too slow for a core IP network that needs 
to support time-sensitive applications. Fault isolation is more 
difficult at the IP Layer than at the optical or SONET/SDH Layers. 
 
-- Higher layer mechanisms (TCP, UDP, OSPF, and BGP) have limited 
visibility into lower layer operations (for example, into the optical 
and SONET/SDH layer physical failures).  
 
-- Establishing interoperability of recovery/protection mechanisms 
between multi-vendor equipment in core IP networks is urgently required 
to enable adoption of IP as a viable core transport technology and to 
facilitate the traffic engineering of future multi-service IP networks.  
 
 
5. Network Survivability Objectives 
 
It is useful at this point to consider some of the objectives for 
network survivability. We propose the following generic objectives for 
network survivability. 
 
5.1 Survivability Mechanisms  
 
Network survivability mechanisms SHOULD: 
 
-- Maximize network reliability and availability. 
-- Facilitate fast recovery times where appropriate. 
-- Take into consideration the recovery actions of different layers. 
For instance, if lower layer mechanisms are utilized in conjunction 
with higher layer survivability mechanisms, the lower layers should 
have an opportunity to restore traffic before the higher layers do. If 
lower layer restoration is slower than higher layer restoration, the 
lower layer may communicate failure information to the higher layer(s), 

 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                       6
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
and allow it to perform recovery. The coordination functionality 
between layers must be tunable. 
-- Avoid network layering violations. That is, defects at higher 
layer(s) should not normally trigger recovery actions at lower layers. 
-- Minimize the loss of data and packet reordering during recovery 
operations. 
-- Minimize the additive latency that may be incurred when recovery is 
activated. 
-- Minimize the state overhead of maintaining recovery information 
(such as additional paths, the association between traffic streams and 
paths, the association between what traffic is protected at which 
layers, and so on). 
-- Allow other (e.g., low priority) traffic access to the protection 
bandwidth. 
-- Be designed into the existing protocols to give as much flexibility 
as possible to the network operator.  
 
In fact, the operator should have some alternatives to choose from when 
deciding what type of protection to implement. The most logical way to 
achieve this would be to use alternatives that are realizable by using 
the mechanisms currently defined for each layer. Basically, there could 
be an option to have different schemes of protection operate in a 
graded manner. For example, schemes like ring protection for the first 
50 ms, and if that is not enough backup to mesh restoration. Another 
useful capability could be the ability to define different protection 
schemes per class of traffic. 
 
The next few sections discuss some of these alternatives. 
 
5.2. Survivability Actions 
 
Network survivability actions SHOULD: 
 
-- Not adversely affect other network operations.  
-- Not adversely affect recovery actions at a different layer.  
-- Not adversely affect the survivability actions within different 
protection domain(s) within a given layer. 
-- Not adversely affect performance levels, to enable adherence to 
SLAs. 
 
5.3. Survivability Techniques 
 
Network survivability techniques SHOULD: 
-- Be specifiable for dedicated or shared protection of working 
traffic. 
-- Be specifiable on an end-to-end basis or on a segment basis. (For 
example, at the ATM , MPLS, or IP layer survivability should be 
specifiable for an end-to-end path or for a segment of a path.) 

 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                       7
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
-- Be specifiable for protection of traffic at different granularities 
(for example, temporal, bandwidth, and QoS granularities; more on this 
in Section 6). 
-- Be specifiable for protection of traffic having different 
transmission and/or preemption priorities. 
-- Be able to fallback on different protection schemes, should the 
primary scheme be unavailable. 
-- Be able to maintain BGP state (where appropriate), if at all 
possible. 
-- Not allow the provisioning of additional traffic if the 
survivability constraints of the existing traffic get violated by 
admitting additional traffic. 
 
 
6. Network Survivability: Parameter Considerations 
 
In this section, we focus on considerations that affect the choice of 
the recovery scheme, and also the specific layer(s) at which network 
providers may choose to perform recovery. 
 
6.1. Time-scale of Operations 
 
The time-scale of the recovery operation is an important factor in 
determining which layer to perform network survivability. In a generic 
sense, the closer to the fault the faster the recovery. However, faults 
occur at different layers and not all layers have visibility to all 
faults at the different layers. The time-scale of recovery operations 
must be considered when choosing the network survivability 
mechanism(s). 
 
 
6.2. Resource Efficiency 
 
The efficient use of the network resources varies from one layer to the 
next. The resource efficiency of recovery operations must be considered 
when choosing the network survivability mechanism(s). 
 
 
6.3. Signaling Mechanisms 
 
In order to perform end-to-end and segment recovery operations, there 
has to exist a signaling mechanism to notify the network recovery 
operation. Some layers have this capability inherently (for example IP 
Layer), others (for example optical layer) -may not. (Although recently 
there have been proposals that integrate the optical layer with Layer 3 
routing and that allow, for example, BGP updates to be triggered upon 
the detection of a fault at the optical layer.) The signaling 
mechanisms initiate the recovery operations and must be considered when 
choosing the network survivability mechanism. 
 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                       8
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
 
 
6.4. Recovery Granularity 
 
The recovery granularity of the different layer recovery operations 
should be a key requirement in network survivability. In a generic 
sense, the higher the layer, the finer the granularity. The Optical and 
SONET Layers can only recover full pipes (i.e. OC48 Granularity), 
whereas IP Layers can recover individual packets or groups of packets. 
The recovery granularity must be considered when choosing the network 
survivability mechanism. It is conceivable that the more granularity at 
the optical layer the better it may be for recovery. However, the 
granularity at the sub-wavelength level would work only with OEO 
devices and not with all-optical ones. Furthermore, the optical layer 
still may not provide  recovery on a per-connection basis (unless the 
Ùconnectionˆ was an entire wavelength or an entire sub-channel that the 
optical layer understands.) 
  
 
6.5 QoS Granularity 
 
The QoS granularity is a key requirement for traffic engineering and 
therefore for recovery operations. The QoS granularity must be 
considered when choosing the network survivability mechanism. It is to 
be noted that optical switches that are able to prioritize wavelengths 
might allow for traffic to be mapped to a priority scheme, which in 
turn is mapped to wavelengths with differing priorities, thereby 
providing some QoS granularity.  
 
6.6. Coverage 
 
The coverage desired by the recovery operation must be defined. Each 
layer provides adequate coverage for that layer, but perhaps not 
adequate coverage of the other layers. To provide more optimal coverage 
of the layers, interworking of recovery mechanisms between two or more 
layers should be considered. For example, combining the Optical Layer 
fast detection of a link layer failure with notification to the IP 
layer that rerouting must occur will provide coverage of both the 
Optical Layer and the IP Layer. The recovery coverage must be 
considered when choosing the network survivability mechanism.  
 
 
6.7. Fault Monitoring/Reporting 
 
The key aspect of recovery operations is the ability to detect faults. 
It is important to understand the various faults that each layer can 
detect, the fault monitoring capabilities and the fault reporting 
mechanism. The fault monitoring and reporting mechanisms must be 
considered when choosing the network survivability mechanism. The 
 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                       9
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
reports may include not only the failed/unplaced circuits, but also 
information on circuits that were placed/routed but have violated their 
performance or QoS constraints. 
 
6.8. Interlayer Considerations/Layer Interactions 
 
As previously mentioned in the coverage considerations, there are many 
advantages to providing a recovery mechanism that interoperates across 
one or more layers. Any such mechanism must not violate any one-layer 
recovery operations or cause another layer to incorrectly recover due 
to a different layer operation. The consideration for providing layer 
interactions between the different layers is discussed in the next 
section. 
 
7. Network Survivability: Layer Considerations 
 
In this Section we focus on the specifics of the different layers in 
the light of the discussions in the previous Section. We enumerate the 
pros and cons of undertaking network protection/restoration at each of 
these layers, and consider the issue of systematically coordinating the 
actions of these layers to achieve enhanced network survivability and 
improved network operation. 
 
7.1. Optical Layer 
 
The optical layer is increasingly becoming the de facto physical layer 
in most core transport networks. With the advent of DWDM technology, 
the optical layer is now capable of providing very high bandwidth pipes 
(on the order of a 100 wavelengths per fiber, each operating at up to 
10 Gb/s) that can be routed over large WANs or backbone networks to 
provide extremely high data rate connectivity between smaller, 
geographically dispersed networks. 
 
The advantages of the optical layer are: 
Fast fault/failure detection: the loss of light or carrier signal at 
the optical layer can be detected quickly by the end node equipment. 
Thus, end points of a link, and, in some cases, lightpaths (such as 
when there is 1+1 protection), can detect link failure within a 
relatively short period of time (a few milliseconds), and can switch to 
a backup lightpath, if configured. 
Large switching granularity: the optical layer has the capacity to 
restore very large numbers of higher layer flows. For example, hundreds 
of LSPs or ATM VCs that would ordinarily be affected by a single link 
failure (such as a fiber cut) could be restored simultaneously at the 
optical layer without the need to invoke higher layer signaling, which 
can be computationally expensive and slow (since it may require 
processing by intermediate nodes, and must invariably encounter 
propagation delay). 
 
 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                      10
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
Some current limitations of the optical layer are: 
Limited range of granularity: The optical layer can only restore the 
traffic at lightpath or sub-lightpath granularity, and is therefore 
suitable when all the data on a lightpath or sub-lightpath requires 
protection/restoration. It cannot restore individual circuits or paths. 
No discrimination between different traffic types: The optical layer 
being bit-transparent is oblivious to actual traffic content on a 
lightpath and cannot, in general, differentiate between different 
traffic types. We note that some discrimination may be possible based 
purely on the physical and transmission properties of the lightpaths 
concerned, such as loss, dispersion, jitter, crosstalk, etc. The 
physical and transmission properties of the lightpaths provide a way to 
discriminate between the quality of the lightpaths themselves, and may 
not necessarily translate into higher layer QoS goals. 
The speed of detection is dependent on the locality of the switching 
action. The speed advantage of the optical layer comes from its ability 
to detect the absence of light, and perform Ùlocal repairˆ by mending 
the connection at the point of failure. However, if the detection point 
and switching point are distinct, as may be the case in shared path 
protection (as opposed to 1+1 path protection), the desired and the 
protection switching point might be the origin of the lightpath. If 
this is the case, some form of signaling between optical equipment will 
be necessary [3]. In such situations, the response time of the optical 
layer will be dependent on the signaling mechanism deployed. Indeed, a 
deficiency of the current optical layer is its inability to signal 
failure notification, and the absence of an automated mechanism to 
perform protection switching in the general (the non 1+1) case. There 
are some schemes that propose to integrate optical layer detection with 
layer 3 signalling, by allowing routing updates to be distributed 
immediately following the detection of a fault at the optical layer. 
This could speed up recovery considerably, since it triggers higher 
layers rerouting decisions much quicker than they would be ordinarily. 
 
7.1.1 Considerations for the Optical Layer 
 
A consideration for the optical layer would be to provide some 
coordination between the optical layer detection and a higher layer 
that has a signaling mechanism, as is proposed, for example, in [3], 
[4], [11]. This would increase the flexibility at the optical layer by 
speeding up and expanding its rerouting capability and facilitate the 
deployment of newer, bandwidth efficient protection options, such as 
shared mesh protection.  
 
Another consideration for the optical layer is that it cannot, in 
general, detect faults in the router or switching node, and so may not 
be able to provide true path protection at the LSP or ATM VC level, 
since faults in the switching equipment would not be detected by the 
optical layer. It is conceivable, in this case, that the reverse of the 
process described above could be used. Namely, if there was 
 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                      11
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
communication between the routing/switching equipment and the optical 
equipment, the optical layer on learning of a router/switch failure (it 
would still not detect faults at higher layers due to misconfiguration 
of the switching equipment), could initiate protection at the optical 
layer (by causing an deliberate loss of light condition). 
 
Appropriate grooming of traffic on to a lightpath must be another 
consideration at the optical layer that would impact traffic 
engineering and network planning. The grooming algorithms, which 
traditionally are geared to most efficiently pack higher layer traffic 
onto a lightpath, would need to be modified to now take traffic 
protection or QoS needs into account, and groom like traffic (for 
example, traffic that requires a high degree of survivability) onto a 
small number of wavelengths that can be protection switched to meet SLA 
objectives. At the same time, the algorithms should also be able to 
pack best-effort (or low priority) traffic on to protection bandwidth 
pipes or 1+1 protection paths, thereby making the grooming of Ùbumpable 
trafficˆ an important consideration as well. 
 
 
7.2. SONET Layer 
 
The SONET layer is the medium of choice in a large base of existing 
network infrastructures. While some of the considerations here are 
similar to those at the optical layer, the SONET layer currently offers 
more flexibility than a pure optical layer. 
 
Some of the advantages of the SONET layer are: 
SONET protection is standardized and can operate across domains. 
The SONET layer provides both detection and automatic protection 
switching. 
The SONET layer provides greater control over the granularity of the 
channels that can be protection switched. 
 
 
Some of the current limitations of the SONET layer are: 
Inefficient use of spare capacity: SONET protection is largely limited 
to ring topologies, where spare capacity often remains idle, making the 
efficiency of bandwidth usage an issue. 
Limited topological scope: SONET protection is largely limited to ring 
topologies, which reduces the flexibility to deploy somewhat more 
complex, but potentially more efficient, mesh-based restoration 
schemes. 
 
Lack of traffic priority: As with the optical layer, the SONET layer 
also cannot distinguish between different priorities of traffic. For 
example, it is not possible in SONET to switch EF (expedited 
forwarding) and AF (assured forwarding) streams based on priority. 

 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                      12
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
(iv)    Oblivious to higher layer failure: Like the optical layer, the 
SONET layer too is oblivious to higher layer errors or faults. Thus, 
SONET cannot detect ATM (or MPLS) layer errors. For instance, a 
corruption of packets at the ATM layer will not be detected by SONET 
processing. 
 
7.2.1 Considerations for the SONET Layer 
 
As with the optical layer, an important area of consideration at the 
SONET layer, from a TE perspective, is also one of traffic grooming. 
When network survivability must be taken into consideration, the 
grooming of traffic may need to be done not only for maximum 
efficiency, but also for maximum efficiency given that protection will 
be needed (and that traffic may require different types and extents of 
protection). A related issue is one of appropriately mapping the 
groomed channels to optical lightpaths, while keeping protection 
constraints in mind. 
 
7.3. ATM Layer and/or MPLS Layer 
 
In this version of this draft we will consider the ATM and MPLS layer 
together, since many of the issues that are involved are common to 
both.  
 
Before proceeding further, however, it is essential to clarify the use 
of the term ÙMPLS  Layerˆ in this document. MPLS merely combines Layer 
2 forwarding (label swapping) with Layer 3 (IP) routing, and does not, 
strictly speaking, satisfy the criteria for being an independent layer 
(it does not, for example, have any layer specific address). We use the 
term ÙMPLS Layerˆ here to refer to the software and hardware that 
together implement MPLS signaling and forwarding functionality, but do 
not include the IP layer and its associated routing software in the 
ÙMPLS Layer.ˆ 
 
Some of the advantages of the ATM or MPLS layer are the following: 
Capability to detect  router/switch faults: Both the ATM and MPLS layer 
provide the capability to detect ˚ faults in the router or switch, 
which are invisible to lower layers. For example, the SONET or the 
optical layer may not be able to detect faults that arise from the 
failure on a router/switch (such as the failure of the control card of 
the router/switch resulting in corrupted ATM or MPLS control packets), 
which can be detected by the ATM or MPLS layer. The ATM layer can do so 
via the F1-F5 errors and via its peering capability, whereas the MPLS 
layer may do so via an appropriately implemented liveness message (for 
example, the LDP Liveness message). 
Capability to detect misconfigurations: Both the ATM and MPLS layer can 
detect node or software misconfiguration by the counting of errored or 
corrupted packets, which may be identified by looking at the ATM header 
or MPLS label. In ATM, this may involve tracking VPI/VCI mismatches, 
 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                      13
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
while in MPLS this may be accomplished by counting TTL errors or label 
mismatches  
 
Other advantages of the ATM layer are the existence of an in-band OAM 
functionality that can help to detect path errors along a virtual 
circuit or virtual path, and also provides faster detection and 
restoration than is possible by relying on routing protocols alone. 
 
Some of the current limitations of the MPLS layer are: 
 
(i)Difficulty of detecting physical link failures: The MPLS layer 
cannot detect failures without an explicit mechanism like a path 
continuity test [9] or a fast liveness message test [10]. Since MPLS 
does not allow for in-band signaling or OAM functionality of the type 
provided by ATM, an issue here is the ability to ensure that the 
liveness message can follow the exact path followed by an MPLS LSP 
between two LSRs.  
 
The MPLS header is to small to allow for OAM functionality of fault and 
performance management.  Although, some recent proposals [11] have 
suggested borrowing bits of the TTL field for realizing OAM 
functionality. 
 
7.3.1 Considerations for the ATM and/or MPLS Layer 
 
As discussed, fault detection at the MPLS layer could be by detecting 
TTL errors or by counting unlabeled packets or packets with 
unrecognized labels. An issue with TTL errors is that they could be the 
result of either an MPLS layer or an IP layer problem, since the MPLS 
header carries the IP TTL. For instance, TTL mismatches could be due to 
a genuine problem with an upstream LSR or due to a router upstream of 
the LSR detecting the mismatches, probably the edge router that 
converted the IP packet into a labeled MPLS packet. Likewise, the 
persistent receipt of unlabeled packets or packets with unknown labels 
might indicate protocol problems, and necessitate a protection switch. 
Thus, detection of some types of errors at the MPLS layer may require a 
protection switch at the same layer, which is independent of lower 
layers. 
 
 
 
 7.4 IP Layer 
 
The IP layer is central to the IP network infrastructure. Some of the 
advantages of the IP layer for survivability include: 
 
The ability to find optimal routes: The IP layer runs routing 
algorithms that can be tuned to propagate information that facilitates 

 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                      14
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
the calculation of optimal routes through the network, and perform 
constraint-based routing  [12] 
Better granularity of protection: Clearly, at the IP layer one obtains 
a fine level of granularity at which protection can be done. This layer 
allows a path selection algorithm to pick paths based on priority and 
other requirements of the traffic. 
Load balancing ability: At the IP layer, one has the maximum 
flexibility to perform load sharing by distributing traffic across 
different paths (for example, by hashing using the source and 
destination address), and the flexibility to select a better path if it 
becomes available. 
 
Some of the drawbacks of the IP layer in terms of survivability are: 
 
A well-known drawback of the IP layer, of course, is that recovery 
operations here can be quite slow relative to the lower layers. 
Connectionless recovery, due to its dependence on IP routing, can take 
seconds to detect loss of connectivity (via routing protocols) thereby 
slowing down the recovery action. 
Another problem with the IP layer is that it too cannot detect physical 
layer faults, in that the IP layer may only be aware of the existence 
of a fault (through the non-receipt hello or keepalive messages in 
routing protocols), but may not know where the fault is. Thus, if the 
intent is not to always rely on fault recovery based on IP rerouting 
fault isolation may be an issue. 
 
7.4.1 Considerations for the IP Layer 
 
One of the major considerations for the IP layer is the time to detect 
faults. In IP connectionless networks, faults affecting TCP sessions 
for example can take a long time to detect since the end-systems must 
decide whether or not a session was lost. Thus, in order for the IP 
layer to provide reliable operation and fast recovery it has to work in 
conjunction with a path pinning mechanism (such as MPLS). 
 
 7.5. Transport Layers 
 
The Transport layers are central to the IP network infrastructure. Some 
of the advantages of the Transport layers for survivability include: 
 
The ability to provide positive acknowledgement with retransmission 
(ACK).  
The finest granularity of protection-application level: Clearly, at the 
TCP layer one obtains a fine level of granularity at which protection 
can be done. This layer allows a path selection algorithm to pick paths 
based on priority and other requirements of the application. 
 
Some of the drawbacks of the Transport layers in terms of survivability 
are: 
 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                      15
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
 
A well-known drawback of the Transport layer, of course, is that 
recovery operations here are quite slow relative to the lower layers. 
Connectionless recovery, due to its dependence on IP routing, can take 
seconds to detect loss of connectivity (via ACKS and sequence 
violations (TCP) or routing protocol (UDP)) thereby slowing down the 
recovery action. 
Another problem with the Transport layer is that it too cannot detect 
physical layer faults, and fault isolation may be an issue if the 
intent is not to always rely on fault recovery based on IP rerouting. 
 
7.4.1 Considerations for the Transport Layer 
 
One of the major considerations for the Transport layer is the time to 
detect faults. In IP connectionless networks, faults affecting TCP 
sessions for example can take a long time to detect since the end-
systems must decide whether or not a session was lost. Thus, in order 
for the Transport layers to provide reliable operation and fast 
recovery it has to work in conjunction with a path pinning mechanism 
(such as MPLS). 
  
 
7.6 Coordination between Layers 
 
As mentioned throughout this document, the coordination of the recovery 
actions across layers could dramatically improve the response times of 
the network to faults, and would be valuable in designing and managing 
traffic engineering mechanisms to better optimize network performance. 
Even though each layer∆s fault detection mechanisms must be 
independent, as explained in the preceding sections, the ability to 
collapse the independent layers in a manageable and constrained manner 
will be important. In particular, the   interworking of failure 
indications across layers to speedup recovery operations at higher 
layers.  
 
An example of a higher layer failure that would not be detected at a 
lower layer is corruption of a packet at the ATM or MPLS layer, but not 
at the SONET layer. Thus, SONET processing would not be able to detect 
such a fault, and this would have to be recovered at the higher layer. 
By contrast, a fiber cut or link impairment is an example of a lower 
layer fault that is not visible at the higher layer, so the ability to 
communicate such fault information across layers may enable a lower 
layer, such as the optical layer, to take advantage of finer-scale 
protection capabilities of the higher layers by enabling them much 
quicker than they normally would. Some major impacts that designing 
coordination between the different layers is how to efficiently design 
the network with high reliability and availability. Additionally, the 
nature of SLAs that a provider could sign with customers will provide 
another degree of design considerations. 
 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                      16
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
 
8. Service Provider Considerations  
 
This section provides an overview of some aspects related to  network 
survivability that service providers may consider when defining their 
requirements. Our objective here is to lay down some initial thoughts, 
and solicit feedback from individuals in the service provider arena. 
 
-- Understanding how important network survivability is to the service 
provider organization  
. Service providers might place different degrees of importance on 
survivability depending on the nature and type of traffic conveyed. It 
would, therefore, be important to know the relative importance of 
survivability for different services offered. 
 
-- Defining the survivability adequacy of the following: 
  a. DWDM 
  b. SONET APS 
  c. SONET UPSR 
  d. SONET BLSR 
  e. MPLS 
  f. ATM 
  g. IP 
  h. Other 
 
It is also necessary to assess the importance of survivability at 
different layers, and the most common layer at which survivability is 
currently provided. 
 
-- Describing the areas that service providers would either require 
additional survivability functionality, or, if additional functionality 
was added to a specific layer, would change their opinion about 
providing survivability at that layer. 
 
-- Determination of whether multi-layer survivability is 
required/desired, and specifying the extent and scope of such 
survivability. 
 
For instance, if SONET detects a LOF should it provide a notification 
to MPLS layer to perform restoration? The point being that MPLS would 
have insight to the TE requirements of the operator environment 
(through policies for example), and could therefore find a more optimal 
route. Or is it that each layer should only provide survivability for 
itself and leave survivability of other layers to mechanisms within 
those layers. 
 
-- Collect service provider survivability strategies, performance 
objectives, and requirements to identify framework level requirements 
on survivability. 
 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                      17
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
 
-- Define the switch-over time objectives, granularity of traffic that 
must be supported, and scope (end-to-end, segment, node, link, 
combinations) of survivability strategies. 
 
-- Identify the extent to which excess traffic would be utilized on 
backup paths during normal operating conditions. 
 
 
 
9. Security Considerations 
 
This document raises no new security issues for any of the protocols 
discussed herein. 
 
10. Acknowledgements 
 
The authors thank Kwabena Akufo for bringing the authors of this draft 
together over two years ago, Dan Awduche for some early suggestions and 
hints regarding the subject matter of this draft, and Loa Andersson for 
highlighting the need to clarify the meaning of the phrase ÙMPLS layerˆ 
as used in this document. 
 
 
11. References
 
[1] Awduche, D. et al,"Overview and Principles of Internet Traffic 
Engineering," Internet Draft, Work in Progress, draft-ietf-tewg-
principles-02, November 2001. 
 
[2]  Kompella, K.et al,"OSPF Extensions in Support of Generalized MPLS,ˆ 
Internet Draft, Work in Progress, draft-ietf-ccamp-ospf-gmpls-
extensions-07.txt, April 2002. 
 
[3] Rajagopalan, B., et al, "IP over Optical Networks: A Framework,", 
Work in Progress, draft-ietf-ipo-framework-01.txt, February 2002. 
 
[4] Lang. J., et al, "Link Management Protocol for Optical Networks," 
Work in Progress, Internet Draft, Work in Progress, draft-ietf-ccamp-
lmp-03.txt, March 2002. 
 
[5] Awduche, D. O., Rekhter, Y, ÙMulti-Protocol Lambda Switching: 
Combining MPLS Traffic Engineering Control With Optical Crossconnects,ˆ 
IEEE Commun. Magazine, vol. 39, no. 3, March 2001, pp. 111-116. 
 
 
 

 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                      18
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
 
[7]Berger. L. (Editor), "Generalized MPLS Signaling Functional 
Description", draft-ietf-mpls-generalized-signaling-08.txt, Internet 
Draft, Work in Progress, April 2002. 
 
[8]Sharma, V., Hellstrand, F. (Editors) "A Framework for MPLS-based 
Recovery," Work in Progress, Internet Draft, draft-ietf-mpls-recovery-
frmwrk-04.txt, May 2002. 
 
[9]Huang, C., V. Sharma, K. Owens, V. Makam "Building Reliable MPLS 
Networks Using a Path Protection Mechanism," IEEE Commun. Magazine, 
vol.40, no. 3, March 2002, pp. 156-162. 
 
[10] Shew, S. "Fast Restoration of MPLS Label Switched Paths," Work in 
Progress, Internet Draft, draft-shew-lsp-restoration-00.txt, October 
1999. 
 
[11] N. Harrison et al, "Requirements for OAM in MPLS Networks," Work 
in Progress, Internet Draft, draft-harrison-mpls-oam-req-01.txt, 
December 2001. 
 
[12] D. Awduche, "MPLS and Traffic Engineering in IP Networks," IEEE 
Commun. Magazine, vol. 37, no. 12, December 1999. 

 
11. Authors∆ Addresses 
    
Ken Owens                           Vishal Sharma 
Erlang Technology, Inc.             Metanoia, Inc. 
1106 Fourth Street                  305 Elan Village Lane, Unit 121 
St. Louis, MO 63126                 San Jose, CA 95134-2545 
Phone: 314-918-1579                 Phone: 408-955-0910 
keno@erlangtech.com                 v.sharma@ieee.org 
                                     
                                     
Mathew Oommen                        
Optical Datacom                      
4150 S. 100th East Avenue            
Suite 402                            
Tulsa, OK 74146                      
720 873 3723                         
moommen@ieee.org                     
                                     
 
 
 
Full Copyright Statement 
 

 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                      19
                                    
                                    
                                    
 
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-02.txt       May 2002 
 
 
"Copyright (C) The Internet Society (March 2000). All Rights Reserved. 
This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to 
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or 
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and 
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind, 
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are 
included on all such copies and derivative works. However, this 
document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the 
copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other 
Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of developing 
Internet standards in which case the procedures for copyrights defined 
in the Internet Standards process must be followed, or as required to 
translate it into languages other than English. 
 
The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be 
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns. 

































 
Owens/Sharma/Oommen     Expires November 2002                      20