
Speermint Working Group                                     Sohel Khan, Sprint
Internet-Draft                                              Feb. 26, 3006
Expires: August 26, 2006                                    
                                                            
                             				    	      

IP Service (Voice and Multimedia) Peering Architecture 
                draft-khan-ip-serv-peer-arch-00.txt

Status of this Memo

   

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as
   Internet-Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt.

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

   This Internet-Draft will expire on August 26, 2006.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2006). 

Intellectual property rights (IPR) statement

By submitting this Internet-Draft, each author represents that any applicable 
patent or other IPR claims of which he or she is aware have been or will be 
disclosed, and any of which he or she becomes aware will be disclosed, in 
accordance with Section 6 of BCP 79.

Abstract

   This document pictorially depicts IP Service (Voice + Multimedia) provider 
network functional components, peering interface functions, and an IP Service 
(VM) providers’ peering reference architecture. The draft also calls for 
developing separate requirements for different types of peering. 

 




Sohel Khan       Expires August 26, 2006                 	[Page 1]

Internet-Draft    IP Service (VM) Peering Architecture             Feb. 26, 2006



Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
   2.  Terminology  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
   3.  Definitions  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
   4.  IP Service (Voice + Multimedia) Provider Network. . . . . . . .   4
   5.  Peering Interface Functions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
   6.  Reference IP Service (VM) Provider Peering Architecture . . . .  6
   7   Type of peering Interfaces . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
   8.  Security Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
   9.  IANA Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
   10.  Acknowledges . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
   11.  References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .8
       Authors' Addresses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
       Intellectual Property and Copyright Statements . . . . . . . . . 9




































Sohel Khan       Expires August 26, 2006                 	[Page 2]

Internet-Draft    IP Service (VM) Peering Architecture             Feb. 26, 2006




1.  Introduction

This document pictorially depicts IP Service (Voice+Multimedia) provider network 
functional components, peering interface functions, and an IP Service (VM) 
providers’ peering reference architecture. The document brings attention of 
different types of peering interfaces and calls for developing separate 
requirements for different types of peering interfaces.

The objective of this draft is to bring attention of current network functional 
components in the IP Service (VM) peering discussion. 

2.  Terminology

   
   In this document, the key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED",
   "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT
   RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" are to be interpreted as
   described in [7] and indicate requirement levels for compliant
   implementations.



3.0 Definitions

3.1 IP Service (Voice + Multimedia) Provider
 
  An IP Service (Voice + Multimedia) provider is an entity that provides IP 
centric voice and multimedia services.  Examples of services are SIP processing 
and transport, media processing and transport, security and policy 
implementation, and emerging application support. End users of an IP Service 
(VM) provider may use PSTN, IP Wireless, non-IP wireless, and SIP-based devices.


3.2 Peering

This document adheres to the peering definitions of IETF draft [4] Section 3.6.














Sohel Khan       Expires August 26, 2006                 	[Page 3]

Internet-Draft    IP Service (VM) Peering Architecture             Feb. 26, 2006


4.0 IP Service (Voice + Multimedia) Provider Network

       
                                   IP Service Provider Network
   / ----------\             /----------------------------------\           
   |           |             |                                   |       +-----+
   |           |             |       		+-----------+    | <--->| IP   |
   |           |             |      	 	|Application|    | <...>| phone|
   |           |             |   .. . . . .. 	|  Servers, |    |      +------+
   |       <---|-------------|-->.Peering  .    | Databases |    |
   |       <.................|.> .Interface.    +-----------+    |
   |           |             |   .Functions.                     |    +--------+
   |           |             |   .. . . . ..    +-----------+    |<-->|Wireless|
   |           |             |                  | SIP       |    |<..>|  IP   |                                           
   |   Peer    |             |   +---------+    | Proxies   |    |    |Network |       
   |           |             |   | Private |    +-----------+    |    +--------+ 
   | Provider  |             |   | ENUM    |                     |
   |           |             |   +---------+    +-----------+    |    
   |           |  	     |		        |SIP UAs     |   |          
   |           |             |                  |B2BUAs      |   |
   |           |             |                  +-----------+    | 
   |           |             |                              +---+|       +----+
   |           |             |         +--------+           |MGCF|<ISUP> |    |  
   |           |             |         | IP     |           +---+|       |    |
   |           |             |         | Routers|           +---+|       |PSTN|     
   |           |             |         +--------+           |MG ||<TDM>  |    |
   |           |             |                              +---+|       +----+
   |           |             |                                   |
   |           |             |                                   |
   \-----------/             \-----------------------------------/
         
 --- Media (RTP/IP)
 ... Signal (SIP)   

            Figure 1: Network Architecture of an IP Service (VM) Provider 

     
An IP Service provider (VM) network contains functions of SIP/SIPPING/SIMPLE 
related RFCs in general and RFC3261[1] in particular. Examples of these 
functions are SIP Proxies, SIP UA, and B2BUA. In addition, the IP Service 
provider network contains IP Routers, Application servers, and databases. To 
facilitate interface with PSTN network, a Service provider network contains 
Media Gateway Control Function (MGCF) and Media Gateway (MG). The network may 
also contain private ENUM.

An IP Service (VM) provider interconnects with other IP Service (VM) providers 
with a peering interface functions. 






Sohel Khan       Expires August 26, 2006                 	[Page 4]

Internet-Draft    IP Service (VM) Peering Architecture             Feb. 26, 2006

5.0 Peering Interface Functions


               ............ . . .. 
               . +------+ .       . 
               . |  AF  | .       . 
               . +------+ .  S    .    
               .          .       .  
               . +------+ .  E    .  
               . |  SF  | .       .
               . +------+ .  C    .  
               .          .       .  
               . +------+ .  U    .
               . |  TF  | .       .
               . +------+ .  R    .
               .          .       .
               . +------+ .  I    .
               . |  MF  | .       .
               . +------+ .  T    .
               .          .       .
               . +------+ .  Y    .
               . | OF   | .       .
               . +------+ .       .
               ............ .. .. .
             Figure 2: Peering Interface functions

An IP Service peering interface can be divided into five planes: application, 
signaling, media, traffic engineering, and operation-management. This document 
defines 
modules performing these interfaces as Application Function (AP), Signaling 
Function (SF), Media Function (MF), Traffic Engineering Function (TF), and 
Operation & Management Function (OF). Note that the security is associated with 
all these functions.




















Sohel Khan       Expires August 26, 2006                 	[Page 5]

Internet-Draft    IP Service (VM) Peering Architecture             Feb. 26, 2006




6.0 Reference IP Service (VM) Provider Peering Architecture

  


   +-------+                                                   +-------+
   |  IP   |           -------                -------          |  IP   |
   | phone | <------> /       \              /       \ <------>| phone |
   +-------+         |        AF ...........AF        |        +-------+
		     |         |            |         |
                     |         |            |         |
    		     |   IP   SF...........SF   IP    |        
   +--------+        | Service |            | Service |        +--------+     
   |Wireless|        |Provider MF .........MF Provider|        |Wireless|
   |Network | <----->|         |            |         |<-----> |Network |
   +--------+        |    A    TF .......  TF     B   |        +--------+
   +------+          |         |            |         |          +------+
   |      | <------->MG        OF ........ OF          <-------> |      |
   | PSTN |          |         |            |         |          | PSTN |
   |      | <-------> \       /              \       / <-------> |      |
   +------+    SS7     -------                -------     SS7    +------+
                                     
                                     
               Figure 3: Reference Peering Architecture


The SF performs Layer 5 peering functions i.e., SIP signaling and control 
functions at the interconnect interface. A possible example of a SF is a SIP 
Proxy or a SIP B2BUA. 

A MF may transform voice payload from one coding (e.g., G.711) to another (e.g., 
EvRC). 

The TF performs the traffic engineering and Layer 3 functions. An example of a 
TF is the session admission control (SAC), which is analogous to the well known 
Call Admission Control (CAC). Another example is the exchange of routing 
information between two providers and implementation of the Border Gateway 
Protocol(BGP)[RFC1771][3].


An AF is a special function that contains bi-laterally disclosed information 
about the application servers and databases of each IP service provider. An 
example of this function is to allow a session to select a better suited 
application server from a set of application servers located inside both service 
providers' network.





Sohel Khan       Expires August 26, 2006                 	[Page 6]

Internet-Draft    IP Service (VM) Peering Architecture             Feb. 26, 2006




Some examples of above functions are presented in the following table: 

   Functions 					Examples
   
Signaling Function (SF)	SIP Proxy, B2BUA, Session Admission Control (SAC), 
				SIP Interoperability, SIP Denial of Service (DoS) 
				protection, SIP Topology Hiding (THIG), and SIP 
				security, privacy and encryption.

Media Function    (MF)	Transcoding, data integrity, media security, privacy and      
encryption. 

TE Function       (TF)	Routing protocol harmonization, VPN mediation, session 
admission policy enforcement, rate shaping, bandwidth 
broker, bandwidth theft protection, data integrity, 
transcoding, Network Address Translation (NAT)


O&M Function    (OF)    CALEA implementation; accounting, billing and	
			      operational data mediation.

Application Function (AF)  An interworking service broker             

 
Note that there may be overlapping of function between MF and TF. The security 
is associated with all functions.
























Sohel Khan       Expires August 26, 2006                 	[Page 7]

Internet-Draft    IP Service (VM) Peering Architecture             Feb. 26, 2006


7.0 Type of peering Interfaces

   Requirements of Peering Interfaces vary depending on the type of 
interconnection. Two large IP service provider having equal or almost equal 
network functional components may peer as network-network interface (NNI). 
However, a small enterprise may rely on many services or network functions of a 
large IP service provider. Thus, the peering requirements between the access-
network 
interfaces (ANI) may be different from those of network-network interfaces. 
Similarly, when a user agent (e.g., laptop) peers with a network (e.g., Wireless 
IP provider), the user-network interface (UNI) requirements may also be 
different 
from those of the NNI and ANI. Requirements for these interfaces need to be 
separately addressed. This document assumes that the p2p SIP is outside the 
scope of SPEERMINT.


8.0 Security 

   Many of the functions this document describes have important security
   and privacy implications.  If the IETF decides to develop standard
   mechanisms to address those functions, security and privacy-related
   aspects will need to be taken into consideration.

7.  IANA Considerations

   This document has no IANA considerations.

8.  Acknowledges

   This draft reproduces some information of the IETF draft draft-sohel-sipping-
s-bc-concept-arch-00.txt, July 14, 2005 and PTSC-SAC-2005-213 [5].
 

9.  References

   [1]  Rosenberg, J., Schulzrinne, H., Camarillo, G., Johnston, A.,
        Peterson, J., Sparks, R., Handley, M. and E. Schooler, "SIP:
        Session Initiation Protocol", RFC 3261, June 2002.
   [2]  Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R. and V. Jacobson,
        "RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time Applications", STD 64,
        RFC 3550, July 2003.
   [3] Rekhter, Y. and T. Li, “A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4)”, RFC 1771, 
       March, 1995.
   [4] Meyer, D., “SPEERMINT Requirements and Terminology”, draft-ietf-
speermint-reqs-and-terminology-01.txt, Feb. 17, 2006.
   [5] Khan, Sohel, "Example Conceptual Realization of S/BCs", 
       PTSC-SAC-2005-213, ATIS-PTSC, June, 2005.






Sohel Khan       Expires August 26, 2006                 	[Page 7]

Internet-Draft    IP Service (VM) Peering Architecture             Feb. 26, 2006


Authors' Addresses

   Sohel Khan, Ph.D.
   Technology Strategist
   Sprint
   6220 Sprint Parkway
   Overland Park, KS 66251
   U.S.A

   
Intellectual Property Statement

   The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
   Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed to
   pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in
   this document or the extent to which any license under such rights
   might or might not be available; nor does it represent that it has
   made any independent effort to identify any such rights.  Information
   on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC documents can be
   found in BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any
   assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an
   attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of
   such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this
   specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository at
   http://www.ietf.org/ipr.

   The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
   copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary
   rights that may cover technology that may be required to implement
   this standard.  Please address the information to the IETF at
   ietf-ipr@ietf.org.


Disclaimer of Validity

   This document and the information contained herein are provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE REPRESENTS
   OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET
   ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
   INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
   INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2005).  This document is subject
   to the rights, licenses and restrictions contained in BCP 78, and
   except as set forth therein, the authors retain all their rights.

Sohel Khan       Expires August 26, 2006                 	[Page 7]

Internet-Draft    IP Service (VM) Peering Architecture             Feb. 26, 2006


