


INTERNET-DRAFT                                                  C. Apple
<draft-apple-schema-file-list-01.txt>                  AT&T Laboratories
Expires: May 6, 1998                                     6 November 1997




                  Directory Schema Listing File Names
                 <draft-apple-schema-file-list-01.txt>

Status of this Memo

   This document is an Internet-Draft. Internet-Drafts are working
   documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas,
   and its working groups. Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time. It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

   To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
   ``1id-abstracts.txt'' listing contained in the Internet-Drafts Shadow
   Directories on ftp.is.co.za (Africa), nic.nordu.net (Europe),
   munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim), ds.internic.net (US East Coast), or
   ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast).

Abstract

   This memo specifies a file name syntax for use by the primary listing
   repository operator of the directory schema listing service.

1.0 Introduction

The fastest route to interoperable directory services is through
standard object classes and attribute types. There is a growing number
of places where schema for Internet Directory Services and Internet
Operations are being defined, with varying degrees of documentation.
This plethora of schema is unavoidable in the light of the needs of
different service communities, but it makes it difficult for directory
service builders to find and make use of an existing schema that will
serve their needs and increase interoperability with other systems. A
listing service providing a single point of discovery for directory
service schema will promote schema reuse, reduce duplication of effort,
and thus promote directory service interoperability. Schema listings
will be stored in multiple files based on the different types of
information associated with a listing: meta data and one or more syntax



Apple                                                           [Page 1]

INTERNET-DRAFT    Directory Schema Listing File Names    6 November 1997


specifications.

1.1 Scope

A file name syntax specification intended for use during the initial
release of a directory schema listing service is inside the scope of
this document.

1.2 Terms and Definitions

Information Object - a descriptive abstraction of some real-world object

Schema - a collection of definitions for related information objects

Listing Meta Data - characteristics that differentiate one schema from
another; used to catalog schema

Listing Content - a formal specification of a schema using an
appropriate [MIMEDIR] profile

Schema Listing - the combination of listing meta data and all available
listing content for a particular schema

The terms for specifying requirement level described in [RFC2119] are
used in this document.

2.0 File Name Syntax

All file names for listing meta data and listing content MUST comply
with the following BNF [RFC822] grammar:


        file-name = "schema-" type "-" sequence "." version


        type = "metadata" / "ldap" /    ; these <type> values
               "whoispp" / "rwhois"     ; are defined for the
                                        ; initial release of the
                                        ; schema listing service


        sequence = NZDIGIT 0*<DIGIT> ; initialized to one (1) for first
                                     ; schema listing
                                     ; increments by one (1) for each
                                     ; successive schema listing published


        NZDIGIT = <any DIGIT except "0" (0x60)>



Apple                                                           [Page 2]

INTERNET-DRAFT    Directory Schema Listing File Names    6 November 1997



        DIGIT = <any ASCII decimal digit (0x60 - 0x71)>


        version = 0*<DIGIT> ["." version]


Other possible values of the type component of a file name MAY be
defined in the future to accomodate schema listings specified using
[MIMEDIR] profiles other than those defined for containing LDAP
[LDAPV3], WHOIS++ [RFC1835], and RWHOIS [RFC1714] schema listing
content.

3.0 Security Considerations

There are no known security concerns associated with the file name
syntax specified in this document.

4.0 Acknowledgements

Leslie Daigle of Bunyip Information Systems reviewed and provided
valuable comments on the syntax specification content in this document.

The schema listing service engineering team:

      Chris Apple - AT&T Labs
      Sanjay Sain - Oracle
      Michael Mealling - NSI
      John Strassner - Cisco
      Sam Sun - CNRI
      Mark Wahl - Critical Angle
      Chris Weider - Microsoft

5.0 References

   [LDAPV3] M. Wahl, T. Howes, S. Kille, "Lightweight Directory Access
   Protocol (Version 3)", INTERNET-DRAFT <draft-ietf-asid-ldapv3-
   protocol-08.txt>, August 1997.

   [MIMEDIR] T. Howes, M. Smith, "A MIME Content-Type for Directory
   Information", INTERNET-DRAFT <draft-ietf-asid-mime-direct-04.txt>,
   July 1997.

   [RFC822] D. Crocker, "Standard of the Format of ARPA-Internet Text
   Messages", STD 11, RFC 822, August 1982.

   [RFC1835] P. Deutsch, R. Schoultz, P. Faltstrom, C. Weider,
   "Architecture of the WHOIS++ Service", RFC 1835, August, 1995.



Apple                                                           [Page 3]

INTERNET-DRAFT    Directory Schema Listing File Names    6 November 1997


   [RFC1714] S. Williamson, M. Kosters,"Referral Whois Protocol
   (RWhois)", RFC 1714, November 1994

   [RFC2119] S. Bradner, "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
   Requirement Level", RFC 2119, March 1997.

6.0 Author's Address

   Chris Apple
   AT&T Laboratories
   600 - 700 Mountain Ave., Room 2F-165
   Murray Hill, NJ 07974-0636
   USA

   E-Mail: capple@att.com
   Phone: +1 908 582 2409
   FAX: +1 908 582 3296




                This INTERNET-DRAFT expires on May 6, 1998.





























Apple                                                           [Page 4]
