Informational Comment							Vint Cerf
Internet Draft							 Internet Society
Document: draft-isoc-internet-for-everyone-00.txt		       April 1999
Category: Informational



The Internet is for Everyone


Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with 
all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026 [1]. Internet-Drafts are 
working documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its 
areas, and its working groups. Note that other groups may also 
distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts. Internet-Drafts are 
draft documents valid for a maximum of six months and may be 
updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any time. It 
is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material or to 
cite them other than as "work in progress." 

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at 
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt 

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at 
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

1. Abstract

The Internet really is for everyone. However, it will only be such 
if we make it so. 


2. The Internet is for everyone

The Internet is for everyone!

How easy to say -  how hard to achieve!

Where are we in achieving this noble objective?

The Internet is in its 11th year of annual doubling since 1988. 
There are over 44 million hosts on the Internet and an estimated 150 
million users, worldwide. By 2006, the Internet is likely to exceed 
the size of the global telephone network, if it has not by that time 
become the telephone network by virtue of IP telephony. Moreover, 
tens of millions of Internet-enabled appliances will have joined 
traditional servers, desktops and laptops as part of the Internet 
family. 

Pagers, cell telephones and personal digital assistants may well 
have merged to become the new telecommunications tool of the next 
decade. However, even at the scale of the telephone system is it 
sobering to realize that only half the population of Earth has ever 
made a telephone call.

It is estimated that commerce on the network will reach somewhere 
between $1.8T and $3.2T by 2003. That is only four years from now 
(but a long career in Internet years).

The number of users of Internet will likely reach over 300 million 
by the end of the year 2000, but that is only about 5% of the 
world's population. By 2047 the world's population may reach about 
11 billion. If only 25% of the then-world's population is on the 
Internet, that is nearly 3 billion users or ten times the population 
estimated at the end of the next year.

As high bandwidth access becomes the norm, through digital 
subscriber loops, cable modems and digital terrestrial and satellite 
radio links, the convergence of media available on the Internet will 
become obvious. Television, radio, telephony and the traditional 
print media will find counterparts on the Internet - and will be 
changed in profound ways by the presence of software that transforms 
the one-way media into interactive resources, shareable by many.

The Internet is proving to be one of the most powerful amplifiers of 
speech every invented. It offers a global megaphone for voices that 
might otherwise be heard only feebly, if at all. It invites and 
facilitates multiple points of view and dialog in ways 
unimplementable by the traditional, one-way, mass media. 

The Internet can facilitate democratic practices in unexpected ways. 
Did you know that proxy voting for stock shareholders is now 
commonly supported on the Internet? Perhaps we can find additional 
ways in which to simplify and expand the voting franchise in other 
domains, including the political, as access to Internet increases.

The Internet is becoming the repository of all we have accomplished 
as a society. It is becoming a kind of disorganized Boswell of the 
human spirit. Be thoughtful in what you commit to email, news 
groups, and other media - it may well turn up in a web search some 
day. Shared databases on the Internet are acting to accelerate the 
pace of research progress, thanks to online access to commonly 
accessible repositories.

The Internet is moving off the planet! Already, interplanetary 
Internet is part of the NASA Mars mission program now underway at 
the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. By 2008 we should have a well-
functioning Earth-Mars network that serves as a nascent backbone of 
an interplanetary system of Internets - InterPlaNet is a network of 
Internets! Ultimately, we will have interplanetary Internet relays 
in polar solar orbit so that they can see most of the planets and 
their interplanetary gateways for most if not all of the time.

The Internet is for everyone - but it won't be if it isn't 
affordable by all that wish to partake of its services, so we must 
dedicate ourselves to making Internet as affordable as other 
infrastructure so critical to our well being. While we follow 
Moore's Law to reduce the cost of Internet-enabling equipment, let 
us also seek to stimulate regulatory policies that take advantage of 
the power of competition to reduce costs.

The Internet is for everyone, - but it won't be if Governments 
restrict access to it, so we must dedicate ourselves to keeping the 
network unrestricted, unfettered and unregulated. We must have the 
freedom to speak and the freedom to hear. 

The Internet is for everyone - but it won't be if it cannot keep up 
with the explosive demand for its services, so we must dedicate 
ourselves to continuing its technological evolution and development 
of the technical standards the lie at the heart of the Internet 
revolution. Let us dedicate ourselves to the support of the Internet 
Architecture Board, the Internet Engineering Steering Group, the 
Internet Research Task Force and the Internet Engineering Task Force 
as they drive us forward into an unbounded future.

The Internet is for everyone - but it won't be until in every home, 
in every business, in every school, in every town and every country 
on the Globe, Internet can be accessed without limitation, at any 
time and in every language.

The Internet is for everyone - but it won't be if it is too complex 
to be used easily by everyone. Let us dedicate ourselves to the task 
of simplifying Internet's interfaces and to educating all that are 
interested in its use. 

The Internet is for everyone - but it won't be if legislation around 
the world creates a thicket of incompatible laws that hinder the 
growth of electronic commerce, stymie the protection of intellectual 
property, and stifle freedom of expression and the development of 
market economies. Let us dedicate ourselves to the creation of a 
global legal framework in which laws work across national boundaries 
to reinforce the upward spiral of value that Internet is capable of 
creating.

The Internet is for everyone - but it won't be if its users cannot 
protect their privacy and the confidentiality of transactions 
conducted on the network. Let us dedicate ourselves to the 
proposition that cryptographic technology sufficient to protect 
privacy from unauthorized disclosure should be freely available, 
applicable and exportable. 

Moreover, as authenticity lies at the heart of trust in networked 
environments, let us dedicate ourselves to work towards the 
development of authentication methods and systems capable of 
supporting electronic commerce through the Internet.

The Internet is for everyone - but it won't be if parents and 
teachers cannot voluntarily create protected spaces for our young 
people for whom the full range of Internet content may be 
inappropriate. Let us dedicate ourselves to the development of 
technologies and practices that offer this protective flexibility to 
those who accept responsibility to provide it.

The Internet is for everyone - but it won't be if we are not 
responsible in its use and mindful of the rights of others who share 
its wealth. Let us dedicate ourselves to the responsible use of this 
new medium and to the proposition that with the freedoms Internet 
enables comes a commensurate responsibility to use these powerful 
enablers with care and consideration. For those who choose to abuse 
these privileges, let us dedicate ourselves to developing the 
necessary tools to combat the abuse and punish the abuser.

I hope Internauts everywhere will join with the Internet Society and 
like-minded organizations to achieve this easily stated but hard to 
achieve goal. As we near the milestone of the third millennium, what 
better theme could we possibly ask for than making the Internet the 
medium of the new millennium?

Internet IS for everyone - but it won't be unless WE make it so.

3. Author's Addresses

Vint Cerf
Chairman, Internet Society
April 1999
Email: vcerf@MCI.NET
