 



Network Working Group                                             X. Zhu
Internet Draft                                                    R. Pan
Intended Status: Informational                             Cisco Systems
Expires: September 14, 2014                               March 13, 2014


     NADA: A Unified Congestion Control Scheme for Real-Time Media
                        draft-zhu-rmcat-nada-03


Abstract

   This document describes a scheme named network-assisted dynamic
   adaptation (NADA), a novel congestion control approach for
   interactive real-time media applications, such as video conferencing.
   In the proposed scheme, the sender regulates its sending rate based
   on either implicit or explicit congestion signaling, in a unified
   approach. The scheme can benefit from explicit congestion
   notification (ECN) markings from network nodes. It also maintains
   consistent sender behavior in the absence of such markings, by 
   reacting to queuing delays and packet losses instead.  

   We present here the overall system architecture, recommended
   behaviors at the sender and the receiver, as well as expected network
   node operations. Results from extensive simulation studies of the
   proposed scheme are available upon request.

Status of this Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted to IETF in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as
   Internet-Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/1id-abstracts.html

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html

 


Zhu & Pan              Expires September 14, 2014               [Page 1]

INTERNET DRAFT                    NADA                    March 13, 2014


Copyright and License Notice

   Copyright (c) 2012 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors. All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
   (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
   publication of this document. Please review these documents
   carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect
   to this document. Code Components extracted from this document must
   include Simplified BSD License text as described in Section 4.e of
   the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without warranty as
   described in the Simplified BSD License.



Table of Contents

   1. Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
   2. Terminology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
   3. System Model  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
   4. Network Node Operations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
     4.1 Default behavior of drop tail  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
     4.2 ECN marking  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
     4.3 PCN marking  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
     4.4 Comments and Discussions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
   5. Receiver Behavior . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
     5.1 Monitoring per-packet statistics . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
     5.2 Calculating time-smoothed values . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
     5.3 Sending periodic feedback  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
     5.4 Discussions on one-way delay measurements  . . . . . . . . .  7
   6. Sender Behavior . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
     6.1 Video encoder rate control . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
     6.2 Rate shaping buffer  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
     6.3 Reference rate calculator  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
     6.4 Video target rate and sending rate calculator  . . . . . . . 11
     6.5 Slow-start behavior  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
   7. Incremental Deployment  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
   8. Implementation Status . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
   9. IANA Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
   10. References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
     10.1  Normative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
     10.2  Informative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12
   Authors' Addresses . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13



 


Zhu & Pan              Expires September 14, 2014               [Page 2]

INTERNET DRAFT                    NADA                    March 13, 2014


1. Introduction

   Interactive real-time media applications introduce a unique set of
   challenges for congestion control. Unlike TCP, the mechanism used for
   real-time media needs to adapt fast to instantaneous bandwidth
   changes, accommodate fluctuations in the output of video encoder rate
   control, and cause low queuing delay over the network. An ideal
   scheme should also make effective use of all types of congestion
   signals, including packet losses, queuing delay, and explicit
   congestion notification (ECN) markings. 

   Based on the above considerations, we present a scheme named network-
   assisted dynamic adaptation (NADA). The proposed design benefits from
   explicit congestion control signals (e.g., ECN markings) from the
   network, and remains compatible in the presence of implicit signals
   (delay or loss) only. In addition, it supports weighted bandwidth
   sharing among competing video flows. 

   This documentation describes the overall system architecture,
   recommended designs at the sender and receiver, as well as expected
   network nodes operations. The signaling mechanism consists of
   standard RTP timestamp [RFC3550] and standard RTCP feedback reports. 

2. Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 [RFC2119].


3. System Model

   The system consists of the following elements: 

        * Incoming media stream, in the form of consecutive raw video
        frames and audio samples;

        * Media encoder with rate control capabilities. It takes the
        incoming media stream and encodes it to an RTP stream at a
        target bit rate R_v. Note that the actual output rate from the
        encoder R_o may fluctuate randomly around the target R_v. Also,
        the encoder can only change its rate at rather coarse time
        intervals, e.g., once every 0.5 seconds. 

        * RTP sender, responsible for calculating the target bit rate
        R_n based on network congestion signals (delay or ECN marking
        reports from the receiver), and for regulating the actual
        sending rate R_s accordingly. A rate shaping buffer is employed
 


Zhu & Pan              Expires September 14, 2014               [Page 3]

INTERNET DRAFT                    NADA                    March 13, 2014


        to absorb the instantaneous difference between video encoder
        output rate R_v and sending rate R_s. The buffer size L_s,
        together with R_n, influences the calculation of actual sending
        rate R_s and video encoder target rate R_v. The RTP sender also
        generates RTP timestamp in outgoing packets.

        * RTP receiver, responsible for measuring and estimating end-to-
        end delay d based on sender RTP timestamp. In the presence of
        packet losses and ECN markings, it also records the individual
        loss and marking events, and calculates the equivalent delay
        d_tilde that accounts for queuing delay, ECN marking, and packet
        losses. The receiver feeds such statistics back to the sender
        via periodic RTCP reports. 

        * Network node, with several modes of operation. The system can
        work with the default behavior of a simple drop tail queue.  It
        can also benefit from advanced AQM features such as RED-based
        ECN marking, and PCN marking using a token bucket algorithm. 

In the following, we will elaborate on the respective operations at the
network node, the receiver, and the sender.

4. Network Node Operations

We consider three variations of queue management behavior at the network
node, leading to either implicit or explicit congestion signals. 

4.1 Default behavior of drop tail

In conventional network with drop tail or RED queues, congestion is
inferred from the estimation of end-to-end delay. No special action is
required at network node.

Packet drops at the queue are detected at the receiver, and contributes
to the calculation of the equivalent delay d_tilde. 

4.2 ECN marking

In this mode, the network node randomly marks the ECN field in the IP
packet header following the Random Early Detection (RED) algorithm
[RFC2309]. Calculation of the marking probability involves the following
steps:

    * upon packet arrival, update smoothed queue size q_avg as: 

                  q_avg = alpha*q + (1-alpha)*q_avg. 

    The smoothing parameter alpha is a value between 0 and 1. A value of
 


Zhu & Pan              Expires September 14, 2014               [Page 4]

INTERNET DRAFT                    NADA                    March 13, 2014


    alpha=1 corresponds to performing no smoothing at all. 

    * calculate marking probability p as: 

        p = 0, if q < q_lo; 

                   q_avg - q_lo
        p = p_max*--------------, if q_lo <= q < q_hi; 
                   q_hi - q_lo

        p = 1, if q >= q_hi. 

Here, q_lo and q_hi corresponds to the low and high thresholds of queue
occupancy. The maximum parking probability is p_max. 

The ECN markings events will contribute to the calculation of an
equivalent delay d_tilde at the receiver. No changes are required at the
sender.

4.3 PCN marking

As a more advanced feature, we also envision network nodes which support
PCN marking based on virtual queues. In such a case, the marking
probability of the ECN bit in the IP packet header is calculated as
follows:

    * upon packet arrival, meter packet against token bucket (r,b); 

    * update token level b_tk; 

    * calculate the marking probability as: 

        p = 0, if b-b_tk < b_lo; 

                    b-b_tk-b_lo
        p = p_max* --------------, if b_lo<= b-b_tk <b_hi; 
                     b_hi-b_lo

        p = 1, if b-b_tk>=b_hi. 

Here, the token bucket lower and upper limits are denoted by b_lo and
b_hi, respectively. The parameter b indicates the size of the token
bucket. The parameter r is chosen as r=gamma*C, where gamma<1 is the
target utilization ratio and C designates link capacity. The maximum
marking probability is p_max. 

The ECN markings events will contribute to the calculation of an
equivalent delay d_tilde at the receiver. No changes are required at the
 


Zhu & Pan              Expires September 14, 2014               [Page 5]

INTERNET DRAFT                    NADA                    March 13, 2014


sender. The virtual queuing mechanism from the PCN marking algorithm
will lead to additional benefits such as zero standing queues. 

4.4 Comments and Discussions

In all three flavors described above, the network queue operates with
the simple first-in-first-out (FIFO) principle. There is no need to
maintain per-flow state. Such a simple design ensures that the system
can scale easily with large number of video flows and high link
capacity.

The sender behavior stays the same in the presence of all types of
congestion signals: delay, loss, ECN marking due to either RED/ECN or
PCN algorithms. This unified approach allows a graceful transition of
the scheme as the level of congestion in the network shifts dynamically
between different regimes. 

5. Receiver Behavior

The role of the receiver is fairly straightforward. It is in charge of
four steps: a) monitoring end-to-end delay/loss/marking statistics on a
per-packet basis; b) aggregating all forms of congestion signals in
terms of the equivalent delay; c) calculating time-smoothed value of the
congestion signal; and d) sending periodic reports back to the sender. 

5.1 Monitoring per-packet statistics

The receiver observes and estimates one-way delay d_n for the n-th
packet, ECN marking event 1_M, and packet loss event 1_L. Here, 1_M and
1_L are binary indicators: the value of 1 corresponding to a marked or
lost packet and value of 0 indicates no marking or loss. 

The equivalent delay d_tilde is calculated as follows: 

                  d_tilde = d_n + 1_M d_M + 1_M d_L, 

where d_M is a prescribed fictitious delay value corresponding to the
ECN marking event (e.g., d_M = 200 ms), and d_L is a prescribed
fictitious delay value corresponding to the packet loss event (e.g., d_L
= 1 second). By introducing a large fictitious delay penalty for ECN
marking and packet losses, the proposed scheme leads to low end-to-end
actual delays in the presence of such events. 

While the value of d_M and d_L are fixed and predetermined in our
current design, we also plan to investigate a scheme for automatically
tuning these values based on desired bandwidth sharing behavior in the
presence of other competing loss-based flows (e.g., loss-based TCP). 

 


Zhu & Pan              Expires September 14, 2014               [Page 6]

INTERNET DRAFT                    NADA                    March 13, 2014


5.2 Calculating time-smoothed values

The receiver smoothes its observations via exponential averaging: 

                 x_n = alpha*d_tilde + (1-alpha)*x_n. 

The weighting parameter alpha adjusts the level of smoothing.

5.3 Sending periodic feedback 

Periodically, the receiver sends back the updated value of x in RTCP
messages, to aid the sender in its calculation of target rate.  The size
of acknowledgement packets are typically on the order of tens of bytes,
and are significantly smaller than average video packet sizes.
Therefore, the bandwidth overhead of the receiver acknowledgement stream
is sufficiently low.

5.4 Discussions on one-way delay measurements

At the current stage, our proposed scheme relies on one-way delay (OWD)
as the primary form of congestion indication. This implicitly relies on
well-synchronized sender and receiver clocks, e.g., due to the presence
of an auxiliary clock synchronization process. For deployment in the
open Internet, however, this assumption may not always hold. 

There are several ways to get around the clock synchronization issue by
slightly tweaking the current design. One option is to work with
relative OWD instead, by maintaining the minimum value of observed OWD
over a longer time horizon and subtract that out from the observed
absolute OWD value. Such an approach cancels out the fixed clock
difference from the sender and receiver clocks, and has been widely
adopted by other delay-based congestion control approaches such as
LEDBAT [RFC6817]. As discussed in [RFC6817], the time horizon for
tracking the minimum OWD needs to be chosen with care: long enough for
an opportunity to observe the minimum OWD with zero queuing delay along
the path, and sufficiently short so as to timely reflect "true" changes
in minimum OWD introduced by route changes and other rare events. 

Alternatively, one could move the per-packet statistical handling to the
sender instead, and use RTT in lieu of OWD, assuming the per-packet ACKs
are present. The main drawback of this latter approach, on the other
hand, is that the scheme will be confused by congestion in the reverse
direction.

Note that either approach involves no change in the proposed rate
adaptation algorithm at the sender. Therefore, comparing the pros and
cons regarding which delay metric to use can be kept as an orthogonal
direction of investigation. 
 


Zhu & Pan              Expires September 14, 2014               [Page 7]

INTERNET DRAFT                    NADA                    March 13, 2014


6. Sender Behavior



                    --------------------             
                    |                  |            
                    |  Reference Rate  | <--------- RTCP report
                    |  Calculator      |  
                    |                  |           
                    --------------------
                            |
                            | R_n
                            |
                --------------------------
               |                          |
               |                          |
              \ /                        \ /
    --------------------           -----------------
    |                  |           |               |
    |  Video Target    |           | Sending Rate  |
    |  Rate Calculator |           | Calculator    |
    |                  |           |               |            
    --------------------           -----------------
       |        /|\                   /|\      |
    R_v|         |                     |       |  
       |         -----------------------       |       
       |                     |                 | R_s 
    ------------             |L_s              |
    |          |             |                 |
    |          |  R_o    --------------       \|/
    |  Encoder |---------->   | | | | | --------------->          
    |          |              | | | | |     video packets
    ------------         --------------         
                         Rate Shaping Buffer     


                     Figure 1 NADA Sender Structure


    Figure 1 provides a more detailed view of the NADA sender. Upon
    receipt of an RTCP report from the receiver, the NADA sender updates
    its calculation of the reference rate R_n as a function of the
    network congestion signal. It further adjusts both the target rate
    for the live video encoder R_v and the sending rate R_s over the
    network based on the updated value of R_n, as well as the size of
    the rate shaping buffer.


 


Zhu & Pan              Expires September 14, 2014               [Page 8]

INTERNET DRAFT                    NADA                    March 13, 2014


    The following sections describe these modules in further details,
    and explain how they interact with each other.  



6.1 Video encoder rate control

The video encoder rate control procedure has the following
characteristics:

    * Rate changes can happen only at large intervals, on the order of
    seconds.

    * Given a target rate R_o, the encoder output rate may randomly
    fluctuate around it. 

    * The encoder output rate is further constrained by video content
    complexity. The range of the final rate output is [R_min, R_max].
    Note that it's content-dependent, and may change over time.

Note that operation of the live video encoder is out of the scope of our
design for a congestion control scheme in NADA. Instead, its behavior
treated as a black box. 

6.2 Rate shaping buffer

A rate shaping buffer is employed to absorb any instantaneous mismatch
between encoder rate output R_o and regulated sending rate R_s. The size
of the buffer evolves from time t-tau to time t as: 

             L_s(t) = max [0, L_s(t-tau)+R_v*tau-R_s*tau]. 


A large rate shaping buffer contributes to higher end-to-end delay,
which may harm the performance of real-time media communications.
Therefore, the sender has a strong incentive to constrain the size of
the shaping buffer. It can either deplete it faster by increasing the
sending rate R_s, or limit its growth by reducing the target rate for
the video encoder rate control R_v. 

6.3 Reference rate calculator

The sender calculates the reference rate R_n based on network congestion
information from receiver RTCP reports. It first compensates the effect
of delayed observation by one round-trip time (RTT) via a linear
predictor:


 


Zhu & Pan              Expires September 14, 2014               [Page 9]

INTERNET DRAFT                    NADA                    March 13, 2014


                        x_n - x_n-1          
        x_hat = x_n + ---------------*tau_o       (1)
                            delta


In (1), the arrival interval between the (n-1)-th the n-th packets is
designated by delta. The parameter tau_o is pre-configured to a fixed
value. Typically, its value is comparable to the RTT experienced by the
flow, but does not needs to be an exact match. Throughout all our
simulation evaluations (see [Zhu-PV13]), we have been using the same
fixed value of tau_o = 200ms.


The reference rate is then calculated as: 


                          R_max-R_min           
        R_n = R_min + w*---------------*x_ref     (2) 
                            x_hat




Here, R_min and R_max denote the content-dependent rate range the
encoder can produce. The weight of priority level is w. The reference
congestion signal x_ref is chosen so that the maximum rate of R_max can
be achieved when x_hat = w*x_ref. The final target rate R_n is clipped
within the range of [R_min, R_max].


The rationale of choose x_ref to be the value of absolute one-way delay
(i.e., only propagation delay along the path) is that ideally, we would
want the video stream to reach the highest possible rate when the queue
stays is empty, e.g., when bottleneck link rate exceeds R_max of video.
In practice, the stream can simply set x_ref to be the minimum value of
OWD observed over a long time horizon. Note also that the combination of
w and x_ref determines how sensitive the rate adaptation scheme is in
reaction to fluctuations in observed signal x. 


The sender does not need any explicit knowledge of the management scheme
inside the network. Rather, it reacts to the aggregation of all forms of
congestion indications (delay, loss, and marking) via the composite
congestion signal x_n from the receiver in a coherent manner. 




 


Zhu & Pan              Expires September 14, 2014              [Page 10]

INTERNET DRAFT                    NADA                    March 13, 2014


6.4 Video target rate and sending rate calculator

The target rate for the live video encoder is updated based on both the
reference rate R_n and the rate shaping buffer size L_s, as follows:

                               L_s
        R_v = R_o - beta_v * -------.       (3) 
                              tau_v

Similarly, the outgoing rate is regulated based on both the reference
rate R_n and the rate shaping buffer size L_s, such that:

                               L_s
        R_s = R_o + beta_s * -------.       (4) 
                              tau_v

In (3) and (4), the first term indicates the rate calculated from
network congestion feedback alone. The second term indicates the
influence of the rate shaping buffer. A large rate shaping buffer nudges
the encoder target rate slightly below -- and the sending rate slightly
above -- the reference rate R_n. Intuitively, the amount of extra rate
offset needed to completely drain the rate shaping buffer within the
same time frame of encoder rate adaptation tau_v is given by L_s/tau_v.
The scaling parameters beta_v and beta_s can be tuned to balance between
the competing goals of maintaining a small rate shaping buffer and
deviating the system from the reference rate point.


6.5 Slow-start behavior

Finally, special care needs to be taken during the startup phase of a
video stream, since it may take several roundtrip-times before the
sender can collect statistically robust information on network
congestion. We propose to regulate the reference rate R_n to grow
linearly in the beginning, no more than: R_ss at time t:

                           t-t_0
        R_ss(t) = R_min + -------(R_max-R_min).
                             T

The start time of the stream is t_0, and T represents the time horizon
over which the slow-start mechanism is effective. The encoder target
rate is chosen to be the minimum of R_n and R_ss during the first T
seconds.




 


Zhu & Pan              Expires September 14, 2014              [Page 11]

INTERNET DRAFT                    NADA                    March 13, 2014


7. Incremental Deployment

One nice property of proposed design is the consistent video end point
behavior irrespective of network node variations. This facilitates
gradual, incremental adoption of the scheme. 

To start off with, the proposed encoder congestion control mechanism can
be implemented without any explicit support from the network, and rely
solely on observed one-way delay measurements and packet loss ratios as
implicit congestion signals. 

When ECN is enabled at the network nodes with RED-based marking, the
receiver can fold its observations of ECN markings into the calculation
of the equivalent delay. The sender can react to these explicit
congestion signals without any modification.

Ultimately, networks equipped with proactive marking based on token
bucket level metering can reap the additional benefits of zero standing
queues and lower end-to-end delay and work seamlessly with existing
senders and receivers. 

8. Implementation Status

The proposed NADA scheme has been implemented in the ns-2 simulation
platform [ns2]. Extensive simulation evaluations of the scheme are
documented in [Zhu-PV13]. 

The scheme has also been implemented in Linux. Initial set of testbed
evaluation results have focused on the case of a single NADA flow over a
single low-delay bottleneck link. More investigations are underway. 

9. IANA Considerations

There are no actions for IANA.

10. References

10.1  Normative References

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

   [RFC3550]  Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., and V.
              Jacobson, "RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time
              Applications", STD 64, RFC 3550, July 2003.


10.2  Informative References
 


Zhu & Pan              Expires September 14, 2014              [Page 12]

INTERNET DRAFT                    NADA                    March 13, 2014


   [RFC3168]  Ramakrishnan, K., Floyd, S., and D. Black, "The Addition
              of Explicit Congestion Notification (ECN) to IP",
              RFC 3168, September 2001.

   [RFC2309]  Braden, B., Clark, D., Crowcroft, J., Davie, B., Deering,
              S., Estrin, D., Floyd, S., Jacobson, V., Minshall, G.,
              Partridge, C., Peterson, L., Ramakrishnan, K., Shenker,
              S., Wroclawski, J., and L. Zhang, "Recommendations on
              Queue Management and Congestion Avoidance in the
              Internet", RFC 2309, April 1998.


   [RFC6187] S. Shalunov, G. Hazel, J. Iyengar, and M. Kuehlewind, "Low
              Extra Delay Background Transport (LEDBAT)", RFC 6817,
              December 2012

   [ns2] "The Network Simulator - ns-2", http://www.isi.edu/nsnam/ns/

   [Zhu-PV13] Zhu, X. and Pan, R., "NADA: A Unified Congestion Control
              Scheme for Low-Latency Interactive Video", in Proc. IEEE
              International Packet Video Workshop (PV'13). San Jose, CA,
              USA. December 2013.




Authors' Addresses


   Xiaoqing Zhu
   Cisco Systems, 
   510 McCarthy Blvd, 
   Milpitas, CA 95134, USA
   EMail: xiaoqzhu@cisco.com

   Rong Pan
   Cisco Systems
   510 McCarthy Blvd, 
   Milpitas, CA 95134, USA
   Email: ropan@cisco.com











Zhu & Pan              Expires September 14, 2014              [Page 13]
