
Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996



                      Managed Objects for Bridges
                      defined using the SNMPv2 SMI

                     <draft-ietf-bridge-mib-00.txt>

                            14 February 1996


                             Eric B. Decker
                          cisco Systems, Inc.
                             cire@cisco.com

                           Anil Rijsinghani
                     Digital Equipment Corporation
                        anil@netcad.enet.dec.com

                             Paul Langille
                            Ascom Nexion Inc
                           langille@nexen.com

                            Keith McCloghrie
                          cisco Systems, Inc.
                             kzm@cisco.com


Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
``1id-abstracts.txt'' listing contained in the Internet- Drafts Shadow
Directories on ds.internic.net (US East Coast), nic.nordu.net (Europe),
ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast), or munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim).









Expires August 1996                                             [Page 1]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


1.  Introduction

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for managing MAC bridges
based on the IEEE 802.1D-1990 standard between Local Area Network (LAN)
segments.  Provisions are made for support of transparent bridging.
Provisions are also made so that these objects apply to bridges
connected by subnetworks other than LAN segments.

The MIB module contained in this memo is updated to be defined using the
SNMPv2 SMI [1], but is otherwise identical to that contained in [10].

2.  The SNMP Network Management Framework

The Internet-standard Network Management Framework presently consists of
three major components.  They are:

  the SMI, described in RFC 1902 [1] - the mechanisms used for
  describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.

  the MIB-II, STD 17, RFC 1213 [2] - the core set of managed objects for
  the Internet suite of protocols.

  the protocol, RFC 1157 [3] and/or RFC 1905 [4], - the protocol for
  accessing managed objects.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.

3.  Objects

3.1.  Object Definitions

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) defined in the
SMI.  In particular, each object type is named by an OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
an administratively assigned name.  The object type together with an
object instance serves to uniquely identify a specific instantiation of
the object.  For human convenience, we often use a textual string,
termed the descriptor, to refer to the object type.








Expires August 1996                                             [Page 2]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


4.  Overview

A common device present in many networks is the Bridge.  This device is
used to connect Local Area Network segments below the network layer.

There are two major modes defined for this bridging; transparent and
source route.  The transparent method of bridging is defined in the
draft IEEE 802.1d specification [9].  This memo defines those objects
needed for the management of a bridging entity operating in the
transparent mode, as well as some objects applicable to all types of
bridges.

To be consistent with good engineering practice, an explicit attempt was
made to keep this MIB as simple as possible.  This was accomplished by
applying the following criteria to objects proposed for inclusion:

(1)  Start with a small set of essential objects and add only as further
     objects are needed.

(2)  Require objects be essential for either fault or configuration
     management.

(3)  Consider evidence of current use and/or utility.

(4)  Limit the total of objects.

(5)  Exclude objects which are simply derivable from others in this or
     other MIBs.

(6)  Avoid causing critical sections to be heavily instrumented.  The
     guideline that was followed is one counter per critical section per
     layer.


















Expires August 1996                                             [Page 3]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


4.1.  Structure of MIB

Objects in this MIB are arranged into groups.  Each group is organized
as a set of related objects.  The overall structure and assignment of
objects to their groups is shown below.  Where appropriate the
corresponding IEEE 802.1d [9] management object name is also included.

Bridge MIB Name                  IEEE 802.1d Name

dot1dBridge
  dot1dBase
    BridgeAddress                Bridge.BridgeAddress
    NumPorts                     Bridge.NumberOfPorts
    Type
    PortTable
      Port                       BridgePort.PortNumber
      IfIndex
      Circuit
      DelayExceededDiscards        .DiscardTransitDelay
      MtuExceededDiscards          .DiscardOnError
  dot1dStp
    ProtocolSpecification
    Priority                     SpanningTreeProtocol
                                   .BridgePriority
    TimeSinceTopologyChange        .TimeSinceTopologyChange
    TopChanges                     .TopologyChangeCount
    DesignatedRoot                 .DesignatedRoot
    RootCost                       .RootCost
    RootPort                       .RootPort
    MaxAge                         .MaxAge
    HelloTime                      .HelloTime
    HoldTime                       .HoldTime
    ForwardDelay                   .ForwardDelay
    BridgeMaxAge                   .BridgeMaxAge
    BridgeHelloTime                .BridgeHelloTime
    BridgeForwardDelay             .BridgeForwardDelay














Expires August 1996                                             [Page 4]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


    PortTable
      Port                        SpanningTreeProtocolPort
                                    .PortNumber
      Priority                      .PortPriority
      State                         .SpanningTreeState
      Enable
      PathCost                      .PortPathCost
      DesignatedRoot                .DesignatedRoot
      DesignatedCost                .DesignatedCost
      DesignatedBridge              .DesignatedBridge
      DesignatedPort                .DesignatedPort
      ForwardTransitions
  dot1dTp
    LearnedEntryDiscards          BridgeFilter.DatabaseSize
                                    .NumDynamic,NumStatic
    AgingTime                     BridgeFilter.AgingTime
    FdbTable
      Address
      Port
      Status
    PortTable
      Port
      MaxInfo
      InFrames                    BridgePort.FramesReceived
      OutFrames                     .ForwardOutbound
      InDiscards                    .DiscardInbound
  dot1dStatic
    StaticTable
      Address
      ReceivePort
      AllowedToGoTo
      Status


















Expires August 1996                                             [Page 5]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


The following IEEE 802.1d management objects have not been included in
the Bridge MIB for the indicated reasons.


IEEE 802.1d Object              Disposition

Bridge.BridgeName               Same as sysDescr (MIB II)
Bridge.BridgeUpTime             Same as sysUpTime (MIB II)
Bridge.PortAddresses            Same as ifPhysAddress (MIB II)
BridgePort.PortName             Same as ifDescr (MIB II)
BridgePort.PortType             Same as ifType (MIB II)
BridgePort.RoutingType          Derivable from the implemented
                                groups

SpanningTreeProtocol
    .BridgeIdentifier           Combination of dot1dStpPriority
                                and dot1dBaseBridgeAddress
    .TopologyChange             Since this is transitory, it
                                is not considered useful.
SpanningTreeProtocolPort
    .Uptime                     Same as ifLastChange (MIB II)
    .PortIdentifier             Combination of dot1dStpPort
                                and dot1dStpPortPriority
    .TopologyChangeAcknowledged Since this is transitory, it
                                is not considered useful.
    .DiscardLackOfBuffers       Redundant

Transmission Priority           These objects are not required
                                as per the Pics Proforma and
                                not considered useful.
    .TransmissionPriorityName
    .OutboundUserPriority
    .OutboundAccessPriority


4.1.1.  The dot1dBase Group

This mandatory group contains the objects which are applicable to all
types of bridges.

4.1.2.  The dot1dStp Group

This group contains the objects that denote the bridge's state with
respect to the Spanning Tree Protocol.  If a node does not implemented
the Spanning Tree Protocol, this group will not be implemented.





Expires August 1996                                             [Page 6]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


4.1.3.  The dot1dSr Group

This group contains the objects that describe the entity's state with
respect to source route bridging.  If source routing is not supported
this group will not be implemented.  This group is applicable to source
route only, and SRT bridges.  This group will be described in a separate
document applicable only to source route bridging.

4.1.4.  The dot1dTp Group

This group contains objects that describe the entity's state with
respect to transparent bridging.  If transparent bridging is not
supported this group will not be implemented.  This group is applicable
to transparent only and SRT bridges.

4.1.5.  The dot1dStatic Group

This group contains objects that describe the entity's state with
respect to destination-address filtering.  If destination-address
filtering is not supported this group will not be implemented.  This
group is applicable to any type of bridge which performs destination-
address filtering.

4.2.  Relationship to Other MIBs

As described above, some IEEE 802.1d management objects have not been
included in this MIB because they overlap with objects in other MIBs
applicable to a bridge implementing this MIB.  In particular, it is
assumed that a bridge implementing this MIB will also implement (at
least) the 'system' group [5] and the 'interfaces' group [7].

4.2.1.  Relationship to the 'system' group

In [5], the 'system' group is defined as being mandatory for all systems
such that each managed entity contains one instance of each object in
the 'system' group.  Thus, those objects apply to the entity as a whole
irrespective of whether the entity's sole functionality is bridging, or
whether bridging is only a subset of the entity's functionality.

4.2.2.  Relationship to the 'interfaces' group

In [7], the 'interfaces' group is defined as being mandatory for all
systems and contains information on an entity's interfaces, where each
interface is thought of as being attached to a `subnetwork'.  (Note that
this term is not to be confused with `subnet' which refers to an





Expires August 1996                                             [Page 7]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


addressing partitioning scheme used in the Internet suite of protocols.)
The term 'segment' is used in this memo to refer to such a subnetwork,
whether it be an Ethernet segment, a 'ring', a WAN link, or even an X.25
virtual circuit.

Implicit in this Bridge MIB is the notion of ports on a bridge.  Each of
these ports is associated with one interface of the 'interfaces' group,
and in most situations, each port is associated with a different
interface. However, there are situations in which multiple ports are
associated with the same interface.  An example of such a situation
would be several ports each corresponding one-to-one with several X.25
virtual circuits but all on the same interface.

Each port is uniquely identified by a port number.  A port number has no
mandatory relationship to an interface number, but in the simple case a
port number will have the same value as the corresponding interface's
interface number.  Port numbers are in the range (1..dot1dBaseNumPorts).

Some entities perform other functionality as well as bridging through
the sending and receiving of data on their interfaces.  In such
situations, only a subset of the data sent/received on an interface is
within the domain of the entity's bridging functionality.  This subset
is considered to be delineated according to a set of protocols, with
some protocols being bridged, and other protocols not being bridged. For
example, in an entity which exclusively performed bridging, all
protocols would be considered as being bridged, whereas in an entity
which performed IP routing on IP datagrams and only bridged other
protocols, only the non-IP data would be considered as being bridged.

Thus, this Bridge MIB (and in particular, its counters) are applicable
only to that subset of the data on an entity's interfaces which is
sent/received for a protocol being bridged.  All such data is
sent/received via the ports of the bridge.

















Expires August 1996                                             [Page 8]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


5.  Definitions


BRIDGE-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, NOTIFICATION-TYPE,
    Integer32, Counter32, TimeTicks,
    mib-2                                FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP      FROM SNMPv2-CONF
    TEXTUAL-CONVENTION, MacAddress       FROM SNMPv2-TC;

dot1dBridge   MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9602102000Z"
    ORGANIZATION "IETF Bridge MIB Working Group"
    CONTACT-INFO
            "        Keith McCloghrie
             Postal: Cisco Systems, Inc.
                     170 West Tasman Drive,
                     San Jose CA 95134-1706.

              Phone: +1 408 526 5260
              Email: kzm@cisco.com"
    DESCRIPTION
            "The MIB module for 802.1d transparent bridges."
    ::= { mib-2 17 }


BridgeId ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    DISPLAY-HINT "1x:"
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A Bridge-Identifier as used in the Spanning Tree Protocol
            to uniquely identify a bridge.  Its first two octets (in
            network byte order) contain a priority value and its last 6
            octets contain the MAC address used to refer to a bridge in
            a unique fashion (typically, the numerically smallest MAC
            address of all ports on the bridge)."
    SYNTAX   OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))











Expires August 1996                                             [Page 9]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


Timeout ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A timer, the value of which is in units of hundreths of a
            second (i.e. 1/100 secs).

            In contrast, the timers stored in a Spanning Tree Protocol's
            BPDU, are in units of 1/256 seconds.  Note, however, that
            802.1D-1990 specifies a settable granularity of no more than
            1 second for these timers.  To avoid ambiguity, all
            representation of these timers in this MIB module are
            defined using this data type.

            Use the following algorithms for converting between the
            different units, to ensure a timer's value is not distorted
            by multiple conversions.

            a) To convert a Timeout value into a value in units of 1/256
            seconds:

                  b  = floor( (n * 256) / 100)

              where:
                  floor   =  quotient [ignore remainder]
                  n is the value in 1/100 second units
                  b is the value in 1/256 second units

            b) To convert the value from 1/256 second units back to
            1/100 seconds:

                  n = ceiling( (b * 100) / 256)

              where:
                  ceiling =  quotient [if remainder is 0], or
                             quotient + 1 [if remainder is non-zero]
                  n is the value in 1/100 second units
                  b is the value in 1/256 second units

            Note: it is important that the arithmetic operations are
            done in the order specified (i.e., multiply first, divide
            second)."
    SYNTAX    Integer32








Expires August 1996                                            [Page 10]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


-- Groups defined in this MIB module
--
-- dot1dBase     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot1dBridge 1 }
-- dot1dStp      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot1dBridge 2 }
-- dot1dTp       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot1dBridge 4 }
-- dot1dStatic   OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot1dBridge 5 }

-- separately documented
dot1dSr       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot1dBridge 3 }



-- The dot1dBase group

dot1dBaseBridgeAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      MacAddress
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The MAC address used by this bridge when it must be
            referred to in a unique fashion.   It is recommended that
            this be the numerically smallest MAC address of all ports
            that belong to this bridge.  However it is only required to
            be unique.  When concatenated with dot1dStpPriority a unique
            BridgeIdentifier is formed which is used in the Spanning
            Tree Protocol."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Sections 6.4.1.1.3 and 3.12.5"
    ::= { dot1dBase 1 }

dot1dBaseNumPorts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of ports controlled by this bridging entity."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 6.4.1.1.3"
    ::= { dot1dBase 2 }

dot1dBaseType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                    unknown(1),
                    transparentOnly(2),
                    sourceRouteOnly(3),





Expires August 1996                                            [Page 11]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


                    srt(4)
                }
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Indicates what type of bridging this bridge can perform.
            If a bridge is actually performing a certain type of
            bridging this will be indicated by entries in the port table
            for the given type."
    ::= { dot1dBase 3 }

-- The Generic Bridge Port Table

dot1dBasePortTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF Dot1dBasePortEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A table that contains generic information about every port
            that is associated with this bridge.  Transparent, source-
            route, and srt ports are included."
    ::= { dot1dBase 4 }

dot1dBasePortEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Dot1dBasePortEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A list of information for each port of the bridge."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 6.4.2, 6.6.1"
    INDEX  { dot1dBasePort }
    ::= { dot1dBasePortTable 1 }

Dot1dBasePortEntry ::=
    SEQUENCE {
        dot1dBasePort                      INTEGER,
        dot1dBasePortIfIndex               Integer32,
        dot1dBasePortCircuit               OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
        dot1dBasePortDelayExceededDiscards Counter32,
        dot1dBasePortMtuExceededDiscards   Counter32
    }

dot1dBasePort OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (1..65535)





Expires August 1996                                            [Page 12]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The port number of the port for which this entry contains
            bridge management information."
    ::= { dot1dBasePortEntry 1 }

dot1dBasePortIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of the instance of the ifIndex object, defined in
            MIB-II, for the interface corresponding to this port."
    ::= { dot1dBasePortEntry 2 }

dot1dBasePortCircuit OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OBJECT IDENTIFIER
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "For a port which (potentially) has the same value of
            dot1dBasePortIfIndex as another port on the same bridge,
            this object contains the name of an object instance unique
            to this port.  For example, in the case where multiple ports
            correspond one-to-one with multiple X.25 virtual circuits,
            this value might identify an (e.g., the first) object
            instance associated with the X.25 virtual circuit
            corresponding to this port.

            For a port which has a unique value of dot1dBasePortIfIndex,
            this object can have the value { 0 0 }."
    ::= { dot1dBasePortEntry 3 }

dot1dBasePortDelayExceededDiscards OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of frames discarded by this port due to
            excessive transit delay through the bridge.  It is
            incremented by both transparent and source route bridges."
    REFERENCE
             "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 6.6.1.1.3"
    ::= { dot1dBasePortEntry 4 }





Expires August 1996                                            [Page 13]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


dot1dBasePortMtuExceededDiscards OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of frames discarded by this port due to an
            excessive size.  It is incremented by both transparent and
            source route bridges."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 6.6.1.1.3"
    ::= { dot1dBasePortEntry 5 }







































Expires August 1996                                            [Page 14]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


-- The dot1dStp group

-- This group is implemented by those bridges that support
-- the Spanning Tree Protocol.

dot1dStpProtocolSpecification OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                    unknown(1),
                    decLb100(2),
                    ieee8021d(3)
                }
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An indication of what version of the Spanning Tree Protocol
            is being run.  The value 'decLb100(2)' indicates the DEC
            LANbridge 100 Spanning Tree protocol.  IEEE 802.1d
            implementations will return 'ieee8021d(3)'.  If future
            versions of the IEEE Spanning Tree Protocol are released
            that are incompatible with the current version a new value
            will be defined."
    ::= { dot1dStp 1 }

dot1dStpPriority OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS  read-write
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of the write-able portion of the Bridge ID, i.e.,
            the first two octets of the (8 octet long) Bridge ID.  The
            other (last) 6 octets of the Bridge ID are given by the
            value of dot1dBaseBridgeAddress."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.3.7"
    ::= { dot1dStp 2 }

dot1dStpTimeSinceTopologyChange OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The time (in hundredths of a second) since the last time a
            topology change was detected by the bridge entity."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 6.8.1.1.3"





Expires August 1996                                            [Page 15]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


    ::= { dot1dStp 3 }

dot1dStpTopChanges OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of topology changes detected by this
            bridge since the management entity was last reset or
            initialized."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 6.8.1.1.3"
    ::= { dot1dStp 4 }

dot1dStpDesignatedRoot OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      BridgeId
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The bridge identifier of the root of the spanning tree as
            determined by the Spanning Tree Protocol as executed by this
            node.  This value is used as the Root Identifier parameter
            in all Configuration Bridge PDUs originated by this node."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.3.1"
    ::= { dot1dStp 5 }

dot1dStpRootCost OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The cost of the path to the root as seen from this bridge."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.3.2"
    ::= { dot1dStp 6 }

dot1dStpRootPort OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The port number of the port which offers the lowest cost
            path from this bridge to the root bridge."
    REFERENCE





Expires August 1996                                            [Page 16]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.3.3"
    ::= { dot1dStp 7 }

dot1dStpMaxAge OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Timeout
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The maximum age of Spanning Tree Protocol information
            learned from the network on any port before it is discarded,
            in units of hundredths of a second.  This is the actual
            value that this bridge is currently using."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.3.4"
    ::= { dot1dStp 8 }

dot1dStpHelloTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Timeout
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The amount of time between the transmission of
            Configuration bridge PDUs by this node on any port when it
            is the root of the spanning tree or trying to become so, in
            units of hundredths of a second.  This is the actual value
            that this bridge is currently using."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.3.5"
    ::= { dot1dStp 9 }

dot1dStpHoldTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This time value determines the interval length during which
            no more than two Configuration bridge PDUs shall be
            transmitted by this node, in units of hundredths of a
            second."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.3.14"
    ::= { dot1dStp 10 }

dot1dStpForwardDelay OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Timeout





Expires August 1996                                            [Page 17]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This time value, measured in units of hundredths of a
            second, controls how fast a port changes its spanning state
            when moving towards the Forwarding state.  The value
            determines how long the port stays in each of the Listening
            and Learning states, which precede the Forwarding state.
            This value is also used, when a topology change has been
            detected and is underway, to age all dynamic entries in the
            Forwarding Database.  [Note that this value is the one that
            this bridge is currently using, in contrast to
            dot1dStpBridgeForwardDelay which is the value that this
            bridge and all others would start using if/when this bridge
            were to become the root.]"
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.3.6"
    ::= { dot1dStp 11 }

dot1dStpBridgeMaxAge OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Timeout (600..4000)
    MAX-ACCESS  read-write
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value that all bridges use for MaxAge when this bridge
            is acting as the root.  Note that 802.1D-1990 specifies that
            the range for this parameter is related to the value of
            dot1dStpBridgeHelloTime. The granularity of this timer is
            specified by 802.1D-1990 to be 1 second.  An agent may
            return a badValue error if a set is attempted to a value
            which is not a whole number of seconds."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.3.8"
    ::= { dot1dStp 12 }

dot1dStpBridgeHelloTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Timeout (100..1000)
    MAX-ACCESS  read-write
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value that all bridges use for HelloTime when this
            bridge is acting as the root.  The granularity of this timer
            is specified by 802.1D-1990 to be 1 second.  An agent may
            return a badValue error if a set is attempted to a value
            which is not a whole number of seconds."





Expires August 1996                                            [Page 18]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.3.9"
    ::= { dot1dStp 13 }

dot1dStpBridgeForwardDelay OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Timeout (400..3000)
    MAX-ACCESS  read-write
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value that all bridges use for ForwardDelay when this
            bridge is acting as the root.  Note that 802.1D-1990
            specifies that the range for this parameter is related to
            the value of dot1dStpBridgeMaxAge.  The granularity of this
            timer is specified by 802.1D-1990 to be 1 second.  An agent
            may return a badValue error if a set is attempted to a value
            which is not a whole number of seconds."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.3.10"
    ::= { dot1dStp 14 }


-- The Spanning Tree Port Table

dot1dStpPortTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF Dot1dStpPortEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A table that contains port-specific information for the
            Spanning Tree Protocol."
    ::= { dot1dStp 15 }

dot1dStpPortEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Dot1dStpPortEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A list of information maintained by every port about the
            Spanning Tree Protocol state for that port."
    INDEX   { dot1dStpPort }
    ::= { dot1dStpPortTable 1 }

Dot1dStpPortEntry ::=
    SEQUENCE {
        dot1dStpPort                     INTEGER,





Expires August 1996                                            [Page 19]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


        dot1dStpPortPriority             INTEGER,
        dot1dStpPortState                INTEGER,
        dot1dStpPortEnable               INTEGER,
        dot1dStpPortPathCost             INTEGER,
        dot1dStpPortDesignatedRoot       BridgeId,
        dot1dStpPortDesignatedCost       Integer32,
        dot1dStpPortDesignatedBridge     BridgeId,
        dot1dStpPortDesignatedPort       OCTET STRING,
        dot1dStpPortForwardTransitions   Counter32
    }

dot1dStpPort OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (1..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The port number of the port for which this entry contains
            Spanning Tree Protocol management information."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 6.8.2.1.2"
    ::= { dot1dStpPortEntry 1 }

dot1dStpPortPriority OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..255)
    MAX-ACCESS  read-write
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of the priority field which is contained in the
            first (in network byte order) octet of the (2 octet long)
            Port ID.  The other octet of the Port ID is given by the
            value of dot1dStpPort."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.5.1"
    ::= { dot1dStpPortEntry 2 }

dot1dStpPortState OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                    disabled(1),
                    blocking(2),
                    listening(3),
                    learning(4),
                    forwarding(5),
                    broken(6)
                }
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only





Expires August 1996                                            [Page 20]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The port's current state as defined by application of the
            Spanning Tree Protocol.  This state controls what action a
            port takes on reception of a frame.  If the bridge has
            detected a port that is malfunctioning it will place that
            port into the broken(6) state.  For ports which are disabled
            (see dot1dStpPortEnable), this object will have a value of
            disabled(1)."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.5.2"
    ::= { dot1dStpPortEntry 3 }

dot1dStpPortEnable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                    enabled(1),
                    disabled(2)
                }
    MAX-ACCESS  read-write
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The enabled/disabled status of the port."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.5.2"
    ::= { dot1dStpPortEntry 4 }

dot1dStpPortPathCost OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (1..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS  read-write
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The contribution of this port to the path cost of paths
            towards the spanning tree root which include this port.
            802.1D-1990 recommends that the default value of this
            parameter be in inverse proportion to the speed of the
            attached LAN."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.5.3"
    ::= { dot1dStpPortEntry 5 }

dot1dStpPortDesignatedRoot OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      BridgeId
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION





Expires August 1996                                            [Page 21]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


            "The unique Bridge Identifier of the Bridge recorded as the
            Root in the Configuration BPDUs transmitted by the
            Designated Bridge for the segment to which the port is
            attached."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.5.4"
    ::= { dot1dStpPortEntry 6 }

dot1dStpPortDesignatedCost OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The path cost of the Designated Port of the segment
            connected to this port.  This value is compared to the Root
            Path Cost field in received bridge PDUs."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.5.5"
    ::= { dot1dStpPortEntry 7 }

dot1dStpPortDesignatedBridge OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      BridgeId
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The Bridge Identifier of the bridge which this port
            considers to be the Designated Bridge for this port's
            segment."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.5.6"
    ::= { dot1dStpPortEntry 8 }

dot1dStpPortDesignatedPort OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OCTET STRING (SIZE (2))
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The Port Identifier of the port on the Designated Bridge
            for this port's segment."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 4.5.5.7"
    ::= { dot1dStpPortEntry 9 }

dot1dStpPortForwardTransitions OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32





Expires August 1996                                            [Page 22]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of times this port has transitioned from the
            Learning state to the Forwarding state."
    ::= { dot1dStpPortEntry 10 }












































Expires August 1996                                            [Page 23]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


-- the dot1dTp group

-- This group is implemented by those bridges that support
-- the transparent bridging mode.  A transparent or SRT bridge
-- will implement this group.


dot1dTpLearnedEntryDiscards OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of Forwarding Database entries, which have
            been or would have been learnt, but have been discarded due
            to a lack of space to store them in the Forwarding Database.
            If this counter is increasing, it indicates that the
            Forwarding Database is regularly becoming full (a condition
            which has unpleasant performance effects on the subnetwork).
            If this counter has a significant value but is not presently
            increasing, it indicates that the problem has been occurring
            but is not persistent."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 6.7.1.1.3"
    ::= { dot1dTp 1 }

dot1dTpAgingTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       INTEGER (10..1000000)
    MAX-ACCESS   read-write
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The timeout period in seconds for aging out dynamically
            learned forwarding information.  802.1D-1990 recommends a
            default of 300 seconds."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 6.7.1.1.3"
    ::= { dot1dTp 2 }


--  The Forwarding Database for Transparent Bridges

dot1dTpFdbTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF Dot1dTpFdbEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION





Expires August 1996                                            [Page 24]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


            "A table that contains information about unicast entries for
            which the bridge has forwarding and/or filtering
            information.  This information is used by the transparent
            bridging function in determining how to propagate a received
            frame."
    ::= { dot1dTp 3 }

dot1dTpFdbEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Dot1dTpFdbEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Information about a specific unicast MAC address for which
            the bridge has some forwarding and/or filtering
            information."
    INDEX   { dot1dTpFdbAddress }
    ::= { dot1dTpFdbTable 1 }

Dot1dTpFdbEntry ::=
    SEQUENCE {
        dot1dTpFdbAddress    MacAddress,
        dot1dTpFdbPort       Integer32,
        dot1dTpFdbStatus     INTEGER
    }

dot1dTpFdbAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      MacAddress
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A unicast MAC address for which the bridge has forwarding
            and/or filtering information."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 3.9.1, 3.9.2"
    ::= { dot1dTpFdbEntry 1 }

dot1dTpFdbPort OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Either the value '0', or the port number of the port on
            which a frame having a source address equal to the value of
            the corresponding instance of dot1dTpFdbAddress has been
            seen.  A value of '0' indicates that the port number has not





Expires August 1996                                            [Page 25]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


            been learned but that the bridge does have some
            forwarding/filtering information about this address (e.g. in
            the dot1dStaticTable).  Implementors are encouraged to
            assign the port value to this object whenever it is learned
            even for addresses for which the corresponding value of
            dot1dTpFdbStatus is not learned(3)."
    ::= { dot1dTpFdbEntry 2 }

dot1dTpFdbStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                    other(1),
                    invalid(2),
                    learned(3),
                    self(4),
                    mgmt(5)
                }
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this entry.  The meanings of the values are:

              other(1)   : none of the following.  This would include
                           the case where some other MIB object (not the
                           corresponding instance of dot1dTpFdbPort, nor
                           an entry in the dot1dStaticTable) is being
                           used to determine if and how frames addressed
                           to the value of the corresponding instance of
                           dot1dTpFdbAddress are being forwarded.

              invalid(2) : this entry is not longer valid (e.g., it was
                           learned but has since aged-out), but has not
                           yet been flushed from the table.

              learned(3) : the value of the corresponding instance of
                           dot1dTpFdbPort was learned, and is being
                           used.

              self(4)    : the value of the corresponding instance of
                           dot1dTpFdbAddress represents one of the
                           bridge's addresses.  The corresponding
                           instance of dot1dTpFdbPort indicates which of
                           the bridge's ports has this address.

              mgmt(5)    : the value of the corresponding instance of
                           dot1dTpFdbAddress is also the value of an





Expires August 1996                                            [Page 26]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


                           existing instance of dot1dStaticAddress."
    ::= { dot1dTpFdbEntry 3 }


--  Port Table for Transparent Bridges

dot1dTpPortTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF Dot1dTpPortEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A table that contains information about every port that is
            associated with this transparent bridge."
    ::= { dot1dTp 4 }

dot1dTpPortEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Dot1dTpPortEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A list of information for each port of a transparent
            bridge."
    INDEX   { dot1dTpPort }
    ::= { dot1dTpPortTable 1 }

Dot1dTpPortEntry ::=
    SEQUENCE {
        dot1dTpPort             INTEGER,
        dot1dTpPortMaxInfo      Integer32,
        dot1dTpPortInFrames     Counter32,
        dot1dTpPortOutFrames    Counter32,
        dot1dTpPortInDiscards   Counter32
    }

dot1dTpPort OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER (1..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The port number of the port for which this entry contains
            Transparent bridging management information."
    ::= { dot1dTpPortEntry 1 }








Expires August 1996                                            [Page 27]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


-- It would be nice if we could use ifMtu as the size of the
-- largest INFO field, but we can't because ifMtu is defined
-- to be the size that the (inter-)network layer can use which
-- can differ from the MAC layer (especially if several layers
-- of encapsulation are used).

dot1dTpPortMaxInfo OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The maximum size of the INFO (non-MAC) field that this port
            will receive or transmit."
    ::= { dot1dTpPortEntry 2 }

dot1dTpPortInFrames OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of frames that have been received by this port
            from its segment. Note that a frame received on the
            interface corresponding to this port is only counted by this
            object if and only if it is for a protocol being processed
            by the local bridging function, including bridge management
            frames."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 6.6.1.1.3"
    ::= { dot1dTpPortEntry 3 }

dot1dTpPortOutFrames OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of frames that have been transmitted by this
            port to its segment.  Note that a frame transmitted on the
            interface corresponding to this port is only counted by this
            object if and only if it is for a protocol being processed
            by the local bridging function, including bridge management
            frames."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 6.6.1.1.3"
    ::= { dot1dTpPortEntry 4 }






Expires August 1996                                            [Page 28]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


dot1dTpPortInDiscards OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Count of valid frames received which were discarded (i.e.,
            filtered) by the Forwarding Process."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 6.6.1.1.3"
    ::= { dot1dTpPortEntry 5 }








































Expires August 1996                                            [Page 29]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


-- The Static (Destination-Address Filtering) Database

dot1dStaticTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF Dot1dStaticEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A table containing filtering information configured into
            the bridge by (local or network) management specifying the
            set of ports to which frames received from specific ports
            and containing specific destination addresses are allowed to
            be forwarded.  The value of zero in this table as the port
            number from which frames with a specific destination address
            are received, is used to specify all ports for which there
            is no specific entry in this table for that particular
            destination address.  Entries are valid for unicast and for
            group/broadcast addresses."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 6.7.2"
    ::= { dot1dStatic 1 }

dot1dStaticEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Dot1dStaticEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Filtering information configured into the bridge by (local
            or network) management specifying the set of ports to which
            frames received from a specific port and containing a
            specific destination address are allowed to be forwarded."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 6.7.2"
    INDEX   { dot1dStaticAddress, dot1dStaticReceivePort }
    ::= { dot1dStaticTable 1 }

Dot1dStaticEntry ::=
    SEQUENCE {
        dot1dStaticAddress         MacAddress,
        dot1dStaticReceivePort     Integer32,
        dot1dStaticAllowedToGoTo   OCTET STRING,
        dot1dStaticStatus          INTEGER
    }

dot1dStaticAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      MacAddress





Expires August 1996                                            [Page 30]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The destination MAC address in a frame to which this
            entry's filtering information applies.  This object can take
            the value of a unicast address, a group address or the
            broadcast address."
    REFERENCE
            "IEEE 802.1D-1990: Section 3.9.1, 3.9.2"
    ::= { dot1dStaticEntry 1 }

dot1dStaticReceivePort OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Either the value '0', or the port number of the port from
            which a frame must be received in order for this entry's
            filtering information to apply.  A value of zero indicates
            that this entry applies on all ports of the bridge for which
            there is no other applicable entry."
    ::= { dot1dStaticEntry 2 }

dot1dStaticAllowedToGoTo OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The set of ports to which frames received from a specific
            port and destined for a specific MAC address, are allowed to
            be forwarded.  Each octet within the value of this object
            specifies a set of eight ports, with the first octet
            specifying ports 1 through 8, the second octet specifying
            ports 9 through 16, etc.  Within each octet, the most
            significant bit represents the lowest numbered port, and the
            least significant bit represents the highest numbered port.
            Thus, each port of the bridge is represented by a single bit
            within the value of this object.  If that bit has a value of
            '1' then that port is included in the set of ports; the port
            is not included if its bit has a value of '0'.  (Note that
            the setting of the bit corresponding to the port from which
            a frame is received is irrelevant.)  The default value of
            this object is a string of ones of appropriate length."
    ::= { dot1dStaticEntry 3 }






Expires August 1996                                            [Page 31]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


dot1dStaticStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                    other(1),
                    invalid(2),
                    permanent(3),
                    deleteOnReset(4),
                    deleteOnTimeout(5)
                }
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This object indicates the status of this entry.  The
            default value is permanent(3).

                 other(1) - this entry is currently in use but the
                      conditions under which it will remain so are
                      different from each of the following values.
                 invalid(2) - writing this value to the object removes
                      the corresponding entry.
                 permanent(3) - this entry is currently in use and will
                      remain so after the next reset of the bridge.
                 deleteOnReset(4) - this entry is currently in use and
                      will remain so until the next reset of the bridge.
                 deleteOnTimeout(5) - this entry is currently in use and
                      will remain so until it is aged out."
    ::= { dot1dStaticEntry 4 }
























Expires August 1996                                            [Page 32]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


-- Notifications for use by Bridges

dot1dBridgeNotifications OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot1dBridge 0 }

newRoot  NOTIFICATION-TYPE
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The newRoot trap indicates that the sending agent has
            become the new root of the Spanning Tree; the trap is sent
            by a bridge soon after its election as the new root, e.g.,
            upon expiration of the Topology Change Timer immediately
            subsequent to its election.  Implementation of this trap is
            optional."
    ::= { dot1dBridgeNotifications 1 }

topologyChange NOTIFICATION-TYPE
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A topologyChange trap is sent by a bridge when any of its
            configured ports transitions from the Learning state to the
            Forwarding state, or from the Forwarding state to the
            Blocking state.  The trap is not sent if a newRoot trap is
            sent for the same transition.  Implementation of this trap
            is optional."
    ::= { dot1dBridgeNotifications 2 }

























Expires August 1996                                            [Page 33]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


-- conformance information

bridgeConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dot1dBridge 6 }

bridgeGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { bridgeConformance 1 }
bridgeCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { bridgeConformance 2 }


-- compliance statements

bridgeCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for SNMPv2 entities
            which implement the Bridge MIB."

    MODULE  -- this module
        MANDATORY-GROUPS { dot1dBase }

    ::= { bridgeCompliances 1 }


-- units of conformance

dot1dBase  OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { dot1dBaseBridgeAddress, dot1dBaseNumPorts,
              dot1dBaseType, dot1dBasePort,
              dot1dBasePortIfIndex, dot1dBasePortCircuit,
              dot1dBasePortDelayExceededDiscards,
              dot1dBasePortMtuExceededDiscards }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects providing basic management
            information for a bridge."
    ::= { dot1dBridge 1 }

dot1dStp OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { dot1dStpProtocolSpecification, dot1dStpPriority,
              dot1dStpTimeSinceTopologyChange, dot1dStpTopChanges,
              dot1dStpDesignatedRoot, dot1dStpRootCost,
              dot1dStpRootPort, dot1dStpMaxAge,
              dot1dStpHelloTime, dot1dStpHoldTime,
              dot1dStpForwardDelay, dot1dStpBridgeMaxAge,
              dot1dStpBridgeHelloTime, dot1dStpBridgeForwardDelay,
              dot1dStpPort, dot1dStpPortPriority,





Expires August 1996                                            [Page 34]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


              dot1dStpPortState, dot1dStpPortEnable,
              dot1dStpPortPathCost, dot1dStpPortDesignatedRoot,
              dot1dStpPortDesignatedCost, dot1dStpPortDesignatedBridge,
              dot1dStpPortDesignatedPort,
              dot1dStpPortForwardTransitions }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects providing management
             information concerning an implementation of the
             802.1d Spanning Tree Protocol."
    ::= { dot1dBridge 2 }

dot1dTp OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { dot1dTpLearnedEntryDiscards, dot1dTpAgingTime,
              dot1dTpFdbAddress, dot1dTpFdbPort,
              dot1dTpFdbStatus, dot1dTpPort,
              dot1dTpPortMaxInfo, dot1dTpPortInFrames,
              dot1dTpPortOutFrames, dot1dTpPortInDiscards }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects providing management
            information concerning the transparent bridge mode."
    ::= { dot1dBridge 4 }

dot1dStatic OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { dot1dStaticAddress, dot1dStaticReceivePort,
              dot1dStaticAllowedToGoTo, dot1dStaticStatus }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects for managing a bridge's
            static (destination-address filtering) database."
    ::= { dot1dBridge 5 }

END
















Expires August 1996                                            [Page 35]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


6.  Acknowledgments

This document was produced on behalf of the Bridge Sub-Working Group of
the SNMP Working Group of the Internet Engineering Task Force.  Over the
course of its deliberations, the working group received four separate
documents for consideration as the basis for its work.  The first was
submitted by Stan Froyd of Advanced Computer Communications; the second
by Richard Fox of SynOptics; the third by Eric Decker of cisco Inc. and
Keith McCloghrie of Hughes LAN Systems; and the fourth by Paul Langille
and Anil Rijsinghani of Digital Equipment Corp. After considering the
submissions, the working group chose to proceed with a document formed
as a conjunction of the latter two submissions.  This document is the
result.

The authors wish to thank the members of the Bridge Working Group for
their many comments and suggestions which improved this effort. In
particular, Fred Baker (chairman of the working group) of ACC, Steve
Sherry of Xyplex, and Frank Kastenholz of Clearpoint Research Corp.
Others members of the Bridge Working Group who contributed to this
effort are:

     Bill Anderson, Mitre
     Karl Auerbach, Epilogue
     Fred Baker, ACC (chair)
     Terry Bradley, Wellfleet
     Ted Brunner, Bellcore
     Jeffrey Buffum, Apollo
     Chris ChioTasso, Fibronics
     Anthony Chung, HLS
     Chuck Davin, MIT-LCS
     Andy Davis, Spider
     Eric Decker, cisco
     Nadya El-Afandi, Network Systems
     Gary Ellis,HP/Apollo
     Richard Fox, SynOptics
     Stan Froyd, ACC
     Frank Kastenholz, Clearpoint Research
     Shirnshon Kaufman,
     Jim Kinder, Fibercom
     Cheryl Krupczak,NCR
     Paul Langille, Digital
     Peter Lin,Vitalink
     Keith McCloghrie, HLS
     Donna McMaster, SynOptics
     Dave Perkins, 3Com





Expires August 1996                                            [Page 36]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


     Jim Reinstedler, Ungermann Bass
     Anil Rijsinghani, Digital
     Mark Schaefer, David Systems
     Steve Sherry, Xyplex
     Bob Stewart, Xyplex
     Emil Sturniolo,
     Kevin Synott, Retix
     Ian Thomas, Chipcom
     Maurice Turcott, Racal
     Fei Xu,








































Expires August 1996                                            [Page 37]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


7.  References

[1]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, "Structure of Management Information for version 2
     of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902,
     January 1996.

[2]  McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II", STD 17,
     RFC 1213, March 1991.

[3]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin, "Simple Network
     Management Protocol", RFC 1157, May 1990.

[4]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, "Protocol Operations for version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

[5]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, "Management Information Base for version 2 of the
     Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1907, January
     1996.

[6]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, "Textual Conventions for version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1903, January 1996.

[7]  McCloghrie, K., and F. Kastenholz, "Evolution of the Interfaces
     Group of MIB-II", RFC 1573, January 1994.

[8]  ANSI/IEEE Standard 802.1D-1990 MAC Bridges, IEEE Project 802 Local
     and Metropolitan Area Networks, (March 8, 1991).

[9]  ISO DIS 10038 MAC Bridges

[10] Decker, E., Rijsinghani, A., Langille, P, and K. McCloghrie,
     "Definitions of Managed Objects for Bridges", RFC 1493, July 1993.













Expires August 1996                                            [Page 38]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


8.  Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.


9.  Authors' Address

     Eric B. Decker
     cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive,
     San Jose CA 95134
     (408) 526 8241
     cire@cisco.com

     Anil Rijsinghani
     Digital Equipment Corporation
     550 King Street
     Littleton, MA 01460
     (508) 486-6786
     anil@netcad.enet.dec.com

     Paul Langille
     Ascom Nexion Inc.
     289 Great Road
     Acton Ma 01720
     (508) 266-3401
     langille@nexen.com

     Keith McCloghrie
     cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive,
     San Jose CA 95134
     (408) 526 5260
     kzm@cisco.com
















Expires August 1996                                            [Page 39]





Internet Draft                 Bridge MIB                  February 1996


Table of Contents


1 Introduction ....................................................    2
2 The SNMP Network Management Framework ...........................    2
3 Objects .........................................................    2
3.1 Object Definitions ............................................    2
4 Overview ........................................................    3
4.1 Structure of MIB ..............................................    4
4.1.1 The dot1dBase Group .........................................    6
4.1.2 The dot1dStp Group ..........................................    6
4.1.3 The dot1dSr Group ...........................................    7
4.1.4 The dot1dTp Group ...........................................    7
4.1.5 The dot1dStatic Group .......................................    7
4.2 Relationship to Other MIBs ....................................    7
4.2.1 Relationship to the 'system' group ..........................    7
4.2.2 Relationship to the 'interfaces' group ......................    7
5 Definitions .....................................................    9
6 Acknowledgments .................................................   36
7 References ......................................................   38
8 Security Considerations .........................................   39
9 Authors' Address ................................................   39




























Expires August 1996                                            [Page 40]
