

Internet Engineering Task Force                            Erik Guttman
INTERNET DRAFT                                         Sun Microsystems     
20 June 2000                                            
Expires in six months


           Service Location Protocol Extension Assignments
                <draft-guttman-svrloc-ext-ids-00.txt>

Status of this Memo

   This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with
   all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2000).  All Rights Reserved.


Abstract

   SLPv2 [1] allows protocol extensions to be defined.  Each must be
   assigned an extension ID. This document lists all extension IDs
   which have been assigned and describes the process by which further
   extension IDs may be acquired.


Extension ID assignments

   SLPv2 [1] defines the mechanism by which new extension IDs are 
   assigned to be Designated Expert. [2] I am currently that designated
   expert and I wanted to inform those implementing SLP as well as
   those involved in using it what the current assignments are as well 
   as how to get more assignments in the future.






Guttman                Expires: 18 November 2000                [Page 1]

Internet Draft        SLPv2 Extension Assignments              June 2000


Notation Conventions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119  [3].


Current Assignments


  0x0001    SLPv2 [1] defines the 'Attribute Missing Extension.  This
            extension is used to help SAs and UAs issue messages which
			conform to Service Templates [4].

  0x0002    The Attribute List Extension [5] is an optimization which
            allows UAs to obtain attribute lists with Service Reply
			messages.  That way they don't have to issue a second
			message to obtain them.

  0x0003    The Vendor Opaque Extension [6] provides a simple hook for
            vendors to extend SLP in a standard and interoperable way.

  0x0004    The Subscribe Extension [7] allows to UAs request that DAs 
            inform them when services of a particular service type and 
			scope appear or disappear.                         

  0x0005    The NotifyAt Extension [7] is used by DAs inform SAs and 
            UAs of what service types and scopes to multicast
            notifications for, and which multicast groups to use.

  0x0006    The Mesh-enhancement extension [8] is used by DAs to send
            mesh control messages as extensions to DAAdvert messages.


Future Assignments

  When internet drafts containing new SLPv2 extensions appear, the new 
  extension ID is listed as TBD (To Be Determined).  The new extension 
  is assigned by the Designated Expert for SLPv2 extensions: [1]

     New SLP Extensions with types in the range 2-65535 may be 
     registered following review by a Designated Expert.

  The designated expert requests that IANA post a registration of the
  extension ID number for the desired purpose.  The current list of
  SLPv2 extension IDs is maintained by IANA.  In principal, IDs are
  assigned to every well specified protocol which requires one. The
  decision is left to the discretion of the Designated Expert.





Guttman                Expires: 18 November 2000                [Page 2]

Internet Draft        SLPv2 Extension Assignments              June 2000


IANA Considerations

  IANA will maintain a file called:

     ftp://ftp.isi.edu/in-notes/iana/assignments/svrloc-extensions

  The contents of this file will be managed by the SLPv2 extension 
  Designated Expert.  He or she will send IANA specific requests to
  update the file.  The current contents of the file would be the
  following:

  -----------------------------------------------------------------
  SLPv2 Extension ID assignments.  
  
  See RFC 2608 for the specification of SLPv2 and how it can be
  extended.
  
  The current 'Designated Expert' for submission of SLPv2 Extensions is
  
      Erik Guttman <erik.guttman@sun.com>


   ID #    Extension Name                   Contact

   0x0001  Attribute Missing                Erik Guttman
                                            erik.guttman@sun.com
           SAs or DAs which receive a
           SrvReg or SrvRqst which omits
		   an attribute which is marked
		   'required' in the Service
		   Template [4] associated with
		   the service type MAY send this
		   extension to warn the message
		   sender.

   0x0002  Attribute List                   Erik Guttman
                                            erik.guttman@sun.com
           UAs may request and obtain
		   attribute lists along with
		   Service Replies.  

   0x0003  Vendor Opaque                    Erik Guttman
                                            erik.guttman@sun.com
	       Vendors may attach specific
           extensions to SLP messages
		   for their own purposes.







Guttman                Expires: 20 December 2000                [Page 3]

Internet Draft        SLPv2 Extension Assignments              June 2000



   0x0004  Subscribe                        James Kempf
                                            james.kempf@sun.com
           UAs request DAs inform them
           when services of a particular
		   service type and scope appear
		   or disappear.                         

   0x0005  NotifyAt                         James Kempf
                                            james.kempf@sun.com
           DAs inform SAs what service
           types and scopes to multicast
		   notifications for, and which
		   multicast groups to use.

   0x0006  Mesh-enhancement                 Weibin Zhao
                                            zwb@cs.columbia.edu
           DA mesh control messages are
           sent as extensions to DAAdvert
		   messages between mesh-enhanced
		   DAs.


  -----------------------------------------------------------------

Security Considerations

   This memo concerns IANA registration of network parameters.
   It has no security implications.


References

  [1] Guttman, E., Perkins, C., Veizades, J., Day, M., "Service
      Location Protocol, Version 2", RFC 2608, July 1999.

  [2] T. Narten, H. Alvestrand.  Guidelines for Writing an IANA
        Considerations Section in RFCs.  RFC 2434, October 1998.

  [3] Bradner, S., "Key Words for Use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
      Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

  [4] Guttman, E., Perkins, C. and J. Kempf, "Service Templates and
      service: Schemes", RFC 2609, June 1999.

  [5] Guttman, E., "Attribute List Extension for the Service Location
      Protocol", draft-guttman-svrloc-attrlist-ext-02.txt, March 1999,
	  a work in progress.





Guttman                Expires: 20 December 2000                [Page 4]

Internet Draft        SLPv2 Extension Assignments              June 2000



  [6] Guttman, E., "Vendor Extensions for Service Location Protocol, 
      Version 2", draft-guttman-svrloc-vendor-ext-01.txt, March 1999,
	  A work in progress.

  [7] Kempf, J., Goldschmidt, J., "Notification and Subscription for 
      SLP", draft-kempf-srvloc-notify-03.txt, January 2000, A work
	  in progress.

  [8] Zhao, W., Schulzrinne, H., Guttman, E., "mSLP - Mesh-enhanced 
      Service Location Protocol", draft-zhao-slp-da-interaction-06.txt,
	  June 2000, A work in progress.


Author's Contact Information

      Erik Guttman
      Network and Security Research Center, Sun Laboratories
      Sun Microsystems, Inc.
      Eichhoelzelstr. 7
      74915 Waibstadt
      Germany

      Phone: +49 172 865 5497
      Fax:   +49 7263 911 701
      Email: Erik.Guttman@Sun.Com


Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2000).  All Rights Reserved.
This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.  The limited permissions granted above are
perpetual and will not be revoked by the Internet Society or its
successors or assigns.  This document and the information contained
herein is provided on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE
INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."



Guttman               Expires: 20 December 2000                [Page 5]





