






                   Definitions of Managed Objects for
                         Extensible SNMP Agents

                              May 14, 1997


                     <draft-ietf-agentx-mib-00.txt>

                              Maria Greene
                              Ascom Nexion
                            greene@nexen.com


                         Smitha Gudur (editor)
                           BMC Software, Inc.
                             sgudur@bmc.com





                          Status of this Memo

     This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its Areas, and
its Working Groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

     Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at
any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference mate-
rial or to cite them other than as a work in progress.

     To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
1id-abstracts.txt listing contained in the Internet-Drafts Shadow Direc-
tories on ds.internic.net (US East Coast), nic.nordu.net (Europe),
ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast), or munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim).

Abstract

     This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management Infor-
mation Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in the
Internet community.  In particular, it describes objects managing SNMP
agents that use the Agent Extensibility (AgentX) Protocol.

     This memo specifies a MIB module in a manner that is both compliant
to the SNMPv2 SMI, and semantically identical to the peer SNMPv1 defini-
tions.



AgentX Working Group      Expires November 1997         FORMFEED[Page 1]





Internet Draft                 AgentX MIB                    14 May 1997


     This memo does not specify a standard for the Internet community.


     The SNMP Network Management Framework presently consists of three
major components.  They are: the SMI, described in RFC 1902 [1] - the
mechanisms used for describing and naming objects for the purpose of
management.  the MIB-II, STD 17, RFC 1213 [2] - the core set of managed
objects for the Internet suite of protocols.  the protocol, RFC 1157 [3]
and/or RFC 1905 [4], - the protocol for accessing managed objects.

     The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.

     Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store,
termed the Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are
defined using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) defined
in the SMI.  In particular, each object type is named by an OBJECT IDEN-
TIFIER, an administratively assigned name.  The object type together
with an object instance serves to uniquely identify a specific instanti-
ation of the object.  For human convenience, we often use a textual
string, termed the descriptor, to also refer to the object type.






























AgentX Working Group      Expires November 1997         FORMFEED[Page 2]





Internet Draft                 AgentX MIB                    14 May 1997


     The SNMP Agent Extensibility Protocol (AgentX) is a protocol used
to distribute the implementation of an SNMP agent amongst a single "mas-
ter agent" and multiple "subagents". See [5] for details about the
AgentX protocol.

     The goals of the AgentX MIB are: List the set of subagents that
currently have logical sessions open with the master agent.  Identify
the subagent's type, vendor, transport address, AgentX protocol version
and other characteristics.  Identify the set of MIB objects each sub-
agent implements, the context in which the objects are registered and
the priority of the registration.  Provide statistics about the protocol
operation such as the number of packets to and from each subagent.
Determine protocol operational parameters such as the timeout interval
for responses from a subagent and the priority at which a subagent reg-
isters a particular MIB region.  Allow (but do not require) managers to
be able to modify AgentX protocol operational parameters and to explic-
itly close subagent sessions with the master agent.


































AgentX Working Group      Expires November 1997         FORMFEED[Page 3]





Internet Draft                 AgentX MIB                    14 May 1997


     AGENTX-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

     IMPORTS
        MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, experimental, Counter32, Unsigned32
           FROM SNMPv2-SMI
        MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP
           FROM SNMPv2-CONF
        DisplayString, TimeStamp
           FROM SNMPv2-TC;


     agentxMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
        LAST-UPDATED "9705141200Z" -- May 14, 1997
        ORGANIZATION "IETF AgentX Working Group"
        CONTACT-INFO
           "Smitha Gudur
            sgudur@bmc.com

            Send comments to the AgentX working group: agentx@fv.com."
        DESCRIPTION
           "The MIB module for the SNMP Agent Extensibility Protocol
            (AgentX). This MIB module will be implemented by the master
            agent."
     -- For testing purposes only. Need to get an experimental id
     --   ::= { experimental 2001 }
        ::= { experimental XX }

     agentxObjects OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { agentxMIB 1 }
     agentxGeneral OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { agentxObjects 1 }

     --
     -- Textual Conventions
     --
     Utf8String ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
        DISPLAY-HINT "255a"
        STATUS  current
        DESCRIPTION
           "To facilitate internationalization, this TC represents
           information taken from the ISO/IEC IS 10646-1 character set,
           encoded as an octet string using the UTF-8 character encoding
           scheme described in RFC 2044 [8].  For strings in 7-bit US-ASCII,
           there is no impact since the UTF-8 representation is identical
           to the US-ASCII encoding."
        SYNTAX  OCTET STRING (SIZE (0..255))

     agentxDefaultTimeout OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..255)
        UNITS       "seconds"



AgentX Working Group      Expires November 1997         FORMFEED[Page 4]





Internet Draft                 AgentX MIB                    14 May 1997


        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The default length of time, in seconds, that the master agent
           should allow to elapse after dispatching a message to a subagent
           before it regards the subagent as not responding. This is a
           system-wide value that may be overridden by the values
           associated with a particular subagent (agentxSATimeout) or a
           particular registered MIB region (agentxRegTimeout)."
        DEFVAL      { 5 }
        ::= { agentxGeneral 1 }

     agentxMasterAgentXVer OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER (1..256)
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The AgentX protocol version supported by this master
           agent. Current version is 1. Note that the master agent must
           allow registration of earlier version subagents."
        DEFVAL      { 1 }
        ::= { agentxGeneral 2 }

     agentxMasterTransports OBJECT-TYPE
     -- For testing with a pre-v2c compiler
     --   SYNTAX      BIT STRING {
        SYNTAX      BITS {
                       unixDomainSockets(0),
                       tcp(1),
                       udp(2),
                       sharedMem(3),
                       other(4)
                    }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The transports that the master agent supports."
        DEFVAL      { { unixDomainSockets } }
        ::= { agentxGeneral 4 }

     --
     -- The AgentX Subagent Group
     --

     agentxSubagent OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { agentxObjects 2 }

     agentxSATableLastChange OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TimeStamp



AgentX Working Group      Expires November 1997         FORMFEED[Page 5]





Internet Draft                 AgentX MIB                    14 May 1997


        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value of sysUpTime when the last row creation or deletion
           occurred in the agentxSubagentTable."
        ::= { agentxSubagent 1 }

     agentxSANumber OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Unsigned32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The current number of entries in the agentxSubagentTable. Note
           that this may be smaller than the largest value of agentxSAIndex
           since index values are not reused when entries come and go from
           the agentxSubagentTable."
        ::= { agentxSubagent 2 }

     --
     -- The AgentX Subagent Table
     --

     agentxSubagentTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF AgentxSubagentEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "A table of AgentX subagents that have open sessions with the
           AgentX master agent."
        ::= { agentxSubagent 3 }

     agentxSubagentEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      AgentxSubagentEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "Information about a single open session between the AgentX
           master agent and a subagent."
        INDEX       { agentxSAIndex }
        ::= { agentxSubagentTable 1 }

     AgentxSubagentEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        agentxSAIndex         Unsigned32,
        agentxSAObjectID      OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
        agentxSADescr         Utf8String,
        agentxSAAdminStatus   INTEGER,
        agentxSAOpenTime      TimeStamp,
        agentxSAAgentXVer     INTEGER,



AgentX Working Group      Expires November 1997         FORMFEED[Page 6]





Internet Draft                 AgentX MIB                    14 May 1997


        agentxSATimeout       INTEGER,
        agentxSATransportType INTEGER,
        agentxSATransportAddr OCTET STRING
     }

     agentxSAIndex OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Unsigned32
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "A unique, small-integer index for the subagent's session. Note
           that if a subagent's session with the master agent is closed for
           any reason its index will not be re-used, therefore, the values
           of agentxSAIndex may not be contiguous and will not be the same
           for the same subagent across multiple sessions."
        ::= { agentxSubagentEntry 1 }

     agentxSAObjectID OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OBJECT IDENTIFIER
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "This is analogous to sysObjectID defined in MIB-2 [2] and is taken
           from the o.id field of the agentx-Open-PDU."
        ::= { agentxSubagentEntry 2 }

     agentxSADescr OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Utf8String
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "A textual description of the subagent. This is analogous to
           sysDescr defined in MIB-2 [2] and is taken from the o.descr
           field of the agentx-Open-PDU."
        ::= { agentxSubagentEntry 3 }

     agentxSAAdminStatus OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                       up(1),
                       down(2)
                    }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The administrative (desired) status of the subagent. Setting
           the value to 'down(2)' closes the subagent (with c.reason set to
           'reasonByManager'). When read, the value returned is always
           'up(1)'."



AgentX Working Group      Expires November 1997         FORMFEED[Page 7]





Internet Draft                 AgentX MIB                    14 May 1997


        DEFVAL      { up }
        ::= { agentxSubagentEntry 4 }

     agentxSAOpenTime OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      TimeStamp
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value of sysUpTime when this session was opened and,
           therefore, this entry was added to the table."
        ::= { agentxSubagentEntry 5 }

     agentxSAAgentXVer OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER (1..256)
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The version of the AgentX protocol supported by the
           subagent. This will be equal to or less than the value of
           agentxMasterAgentXVer."
        DEFVAL      { 1 }
        ::= { agentxSubagentEntry 6 }

     agentxSATimeout OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX     INTEGER (0..255)
        MAX-ACCESS read-write
        STATUS     current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The length of time, in seconds, that a master agent should
           allow to elapse after dispatching a message to this subagent
           before it regards the subagent as not responding. This value is
           taken from the o.timeout field of the agentx-Open-PDU.

           This is a subagent-wide value that may be overridden by values
           associated with specific registered MIB regions (see
           agentxRegTimeout).  The default value of '0' indicates that the
           master agent's default timeout value should be used (see
           agentxDefaultTimeout).

           Note that, if the agent supports writing of this object the new
           value will be used for the next agentx-Open-PDU the subagent
           sends."
        DEFVAL     { 0 }
        ::= { agentxSubagentEntry 7 }

     agentxSATransportType OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                       unixDomainSockets(1),



AgentX Working Group      Expires November 1997         FORMFEED[Page 8]





Internet Draft                 AgentX MIB                    14 May 1997


                       tcp(2),
                       udp(3),
                       sharedMem(4),
                       other(5)
                    }
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The transport used for AgentX protocol messages between this
           subagent and the master agent."
        ::= { agentxSubagentEntry 8 }

     agentxSATransportAddr OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The 'address' of the session this subagent has open with the
           master agent. Interpretation of this value depends on the value
           of agentxSATransportType."
        ::= { agentxSubagentEntry 9 }


     --
     -- The AgentX Registration Table
     --

     agentxRegistrationTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF AgentxRegistrationEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "A table of registered OBJECT IDENTIFIER regions. This is the
           table used to dispatch AgentX PDUs to the appropriate subagent
           based on the requested OIDs in the SNMP messages. Note that a
           subagent registration may be broken up into multiple entries in
           this table, as described in the AgentX Protocol specification,
           [5]."
        ::= { agentxObjects 3 }

     agentxRegistrationEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      AgentxRegistrationEntry
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "A single registered region. Regions are added by the master
           agent when subagents register and are removed from the table
           when the subagents unregister the region or their sessions are



AgentX Working Group      Expires November 1997         FORMFEED[Page 9]





Internet Draft                 AgentX MIB                    14 May 1997


           closed. Note that the combination of agentxRegContext,
           agentxRegStart and agentxRegDispatchOrder will be unique and
           could have been used for indexing purposes."
        INDEX       { agentxRegIndex }
        ::= { agentxRegistrationTable 1 }

     AgentxRegistrationEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        agentxRegIndex           Unsigned32,
        agentxRegContext         OCTET STRING,
        agentxRegStart           OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
        agentxRegEnd             OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
        agentxRegPriority        Unsigned32,
        agentxRegSAIndex         Unsigned32,
        agentxRegTimeout         INTEGER
     }

     agentxRegIndex OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Unsigned32
        MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "An integer that uniquely identifies a registration entry."
        ::= { agentxRegistrationEntry 1 }

     agentxRegContext OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OCTET STRING
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The context in which the subagent supports the objects in this
           region. A zero-length context indicates the default context."
        ::= { agentxRegistrationEntry 2 }

     agentxRegStart OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OBJECT IDENTIFIER
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The starting OBJECT IDENTIFIER of this registration entry. The
           subagent identified by agentxRegSAIndex implements objects
           starting at this value (inclusive). Note that this value could
           identify an object type, an object instance, or a partial object
           instance identifier."
        ::= { agentxRegistrationEntry 3 }

     agentxRegEnd OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      OBJECT IDENTIFIER
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only



AgentX Working Group      Expires November 1997        FORMFEED[Page 10]





Internet Draft                 AgentX MIB                    14 May 1997


        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The ending OBJECT IDENTIFIER of this registration entry. The
           subagent identified by agentxRegSAIndex implements objects up to but
           not including this value. Note that this value could identify an
           object type, an object instance, or a partial object instance
           identifier."
        ::= { agentxRegistrationEntry 4 }

     --
     --
     --
     --agentxRegDispatchOrder OBJECT-TYPE
     --   SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..256)
     --   MAX-ACCESS  read-only
     --   STATUS      current
     --   DESCRIPTION
     --      "An indication of this range's order or precedence for
     --      dispatching purposes. This value will normally be 0 indicating
     --      that there is no duplicate OID registration for this range. If
     --      the value is anything but 0 then there is duplicate registration
     --      and the entry with the lowest value of agentxRegDispatchOrder
     --      will be the one selected."
     --   REFERENCE
     --      "Agent Extensibility (AgentX) Protocol Version 1, [5], section
     --      7.1.4.1 Handling Duplicate OID Ranges."
     --   DEFVAL     { 0 }
     --   ::= { agentxRegistrationEntry 5 }


     --
     --      To support other subagents types that can be visible to the manager.
     --
     agentxRegPriority OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Unsigned32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The subagent's priority when exporting this OID range. Lower
           values have higher priority.

           Note that, if the agent supports writing of this object the new
           value will be used for subsequent agentx-Register-PDUs the
           subagent sends for this region. In other words, if the manager
           wishes to change the value operationally, she must set this
           value then set the corresponding agentxSAAdminStatus to
           'down(2)' (as indicated by agentxRegSAIndex), which will close
           the subagent, after which is will automatically re-open the



AgentX Working Group      Expires November 1997        FORMFEED[Page 11]





Internet Draft                 AgentX MIB                    14 May 1997


           session and re-register its OID ranges with the new priority."
        DEFVAL      { 255 }
        ::= { agentxRegistrationEntry 5 }

     agentxRegSAIndex OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Unsigned32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The value of agentxSAIndex for the subagent that registered
           this OID range."
        ::= { agentxRegistrationEntry 6 }

     agentxRegTimeout OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      INTEGER (0..255)
        MAX-ACCESS  read-write
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The timeout value, in seconds, for subagent responses to
           requests associated with this OID range. The value '0' indicates
           that default value (indicated by agentxSATimeout or
           agentxDefaultTimeout) is to be used. This value is taken from
           the r.timeout field of the agentx-Register-PDU.

           Note that, if the agent supports writing of this object the new
           value will be used for subsequent agentx-Register-PDUs the
           subagent sends for this region."
        DEFVAL      { 0 }
        ::= { agentxRegistrationEntry 7 }


     --
     -- The AgentX Statistics Group
     --
     -- The statistics in this group are maintained by the Master Agent.
     --
     --      Other stats have been removed. Support trap generation based
     --      on certain situations for  duplicate registration.
     --
     agentxStats OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { agentxObjects 4 }

     agentxRegisterDuplicate OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX      Counter32
        MAX-ACCESS  read-only
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The number of agentx-Response-PDU messages sent by the master
           agent in response to incoming agentx-Register-PDU messages where



AgentX Working Group      Expires November 1997        FORMFEED[Page 12]





Internet Draft                 AgentX MIB                    14 May 1997


           the res.error field was set to 'duplicateRegistration'."
        ::= { agentxStats 1 }

     --
     -- Conformance Statements for the AgentX MIB
     --

     agentxConformance     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { agentxMIB 2 }
     agentxMIBGroups       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { agentxConformance 1 }
     agentxMIBCompliances  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { agentxConformance 2 }

     agentxMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "The compliance statement for SNMP entities that implement the
           AgentX protocol. Note that a compliant agent can implement all
           objects in this MIB module as read-only."

        MODULE -- this module
           MANDATORY-GROUPS  { agentxMIBGroup }

           OBJECT agentxDefaultTimeout
              MIN-ACCESS read-only
              DESCRIPTION
                 "Write access is not required."

           OBJECT agentxSATimeout
              MIN-ACCESS read-only
              DESCRIPTION
                 "Write access is not required."

           OBJECT agentxSAAdminStatus
              MIN-ACCESS read-only
              DESCRIPTION
                 "Write access is not required."

           OBJECT agentxRegPriority
              MIN-ACCESS read-only
              DESCRIPTION
                 "Write access is not required."

           OBJECT agentxRegTimeout
              MIN-ACCESS read-only
              DESCRIPTION
                 "Write access is not required."

        ::= { agentxMIBCompliances 1 }




AgentX Working Group      Expires November 1997        FORMFEED[Page 13]





Internet Draft                 AgentX MIB                    14 May 1997


     agentxMIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
           agentxDefaultTimeout,
           agentxMasterAgentXVer,
           agentxMasterTransports,
           agentxSATableLastChange,
           agentxSANumber,
           agentxSATimeout,
           agentxSAObjectID,
           agentxSADescr,
           agentxSAAdminStatus,
           agentxSAOpenTime,
           agentxSAAgentXVer,
           agentxSATransportType,
           agentxSATransportAddr,
           agentxRegContext,
           agentxRegStart,
           agentxRegEnd,
           agentxRegPriority,
           agentxRegSAIndex,
           agentxRegTimeout,
           agentxRegisterDuplicate
        }
        STATUS      current
        DESCRIPTION
           "All accessible objects in the AgentX MIB."
        ::= { agentxMIBGroups 1 }

     END

          This document is a product of the IETF's AgentX Working Group.

          Special acknowledgement is made to:


          Maria Greene Ascom Nexion 289 Great Road Acton, MA 01720
     Phone: (508) 266-4570 EMail: greene@nexen.com



          This MIB is an evolution of the Subagent MIB by Bert Wijnen
     (wijnen@vnet.ibm.com) which in turn was derived from the SMUX-MIB
     by Marshall Rose [6].








AgentX Working Group      Expires November 1997        FORMFEED[Page 14]





Internet Draft                 AgentX MIB                    14 May 1997


     SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, Structure of Management Information for Version 2 of
     the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2), RFC1902, SNMP
     Research,Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.,
     International Network Services, January 1996.  McCloghrie, K., and
     M. Rose, Editors, Management Information Base for Network Manage-
     ment of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II, STD 17, RFC 1213, Hughes
     LAN Systems, Performance Systems International, March 1991.  Case,
     J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin, Simple Network Man-
     agement Protocol, RFC 1157, SNMP Research, Performance Systems
     International, Performance Systems International, MIT Laboratory
     for Computer Science, May 1990.  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J.,
     McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, Protocol Operations
     for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2),
     RFC1905, SNMP Research,Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Dover Beach Con-
     sulting, Inc., International Network Services, January 1996.
     Daniele, M., Wijnen, B., Francisco, D., Agent Extensibility
     (AgentX) Protocol, Version 1, draft-ietf-agentx-ext-pro-01.txt,
     Digital Equipment Corporation, T.J. Watson Research Center, IBM
     Corp., Cisco Systems, November, 1996.  Rose, M., SNMP MUX Protocol
     and MIB, RFC1227, Performance Systems International, Inc., May
     1991.  Wijnen, B., Carpenter, G., Curran, K., Sehgal, A., and G.
     Waters, Simple Network Management Protocol: Distributed Protocol
     Interface, Version 2.0, RFC 1592, T.J. Watson Research Center, IBM
     Corp., Bell Northern Research, Ltd., March 1994.  F. Yergeau,
     UTF-8, a transformation format of Unicode and ISO 10646,, RFC 2044,
     October 1996.
























AgentX Working Group      Expires November 1997        FORMFEED[Page 15]





Internet Draft                 AgentX MIB                    14 May 1997


          Security issues are not discussed in this memo.

          Editor's Address:

          Smitha Gudur
          BMC Software, Inc.
          1190 Saratoga Avenue, Suite 130
          San Jose, CA 95129-3433
          Phone: (408) 556-0720
          EMail: sgudur@bmc.com









































AgentX Working Group      Expires November 1997        FORMFEED[Page 16]


