



IDMR Working Group                                   Keith McCloghrie
INTERNET-DRAFT                                         Dino Farinacci
Expires August 1998                                     cisco Systems
                                                          Dave Thaler
                                               University of Michigan
                                                     18 February 1998



                 Internet Group Management Protocol MIB
                   <draft-ietf-idmr-igmp-mib-06.txt>





Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet Draft.  Internet Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its Areas, and
its Working Groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet Drafts.

Internet Drafts are valid for a maximum of six months and may be
updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any time.  It is
inappropriate to use Internet Drafts as reference material or to cite
them other than as a "work in progress".


1.  Introduction

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in the Internet
community.  In particular, it describes managed objects used for
managing the Internet Group Management Protocol (IGMP).  All of this MIB
module is applicable to IP multicast routers [6,7,8,9,10]; a subset is
applicable to hosts implementing IGMPv1 [5] or IGMPv2 [11].



















Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


2.  Revision History

A record of changes which will be removed before publication.

18 February 1998

(1)  added igmpInterfaceProxyIfIndex to manage IGMP proxies.

(2)  added igmpInterfaceLastMembQueryIntvl.

18 July 1997

(1)  deprecated igmpInterfaceLeaves and added igmpInterfaceGroups to
     replace it.

(2)  deprecated igmpInterfaceQuerierPresentTimeout and added
     igmpInterfaceRobustness to replace it since the former must be
     derived from the latter per the IGMPv2 spec.

(3)  replaced igmpBaseVersion2MIBGroup with igmpHostVersion2MIBGroup to
     avoid requiring igmpInterfaceVersion1QuerierTimer at routers.

(4)  deprecated igmpInterfaceLeaveEnabled

(5)  added compliance statements for IGMPv2 hosts and routers

26 November 1996

(1)  moved igmpInterfaceVersion1HostTimer to igmpCacheVersion1HostTimer.

(2)  added igmpInterfaceVersion1QuerierTimer,
     igmpInterfaceWrongVersionQueries, and igmpInterfaceJoins.

(3)  added default value for igmpInterfaceQueryMaxResponseTime.

(4)  moved igmpInterfaceVersion from igmpBaseVersion2MIBGroup to
     igmpRouterVersion2MIBGroup.

9 June 1996

(1)  added support for IGMP version 2.









Expires August 1998                                             [Page 2]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


3.  The SNMP Network Management Framework

The SNMP Network Management Framework presently consists of three major
components.  They are:

o    RFC 1902 [1] which defines the SMI, the mechanisms used for
     describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.

o    STD 17, RFC 1213 [2] defines MIB-II, the core set of managed
     objects for the Internet suite of protocols.

o    RFC 1157 [3] and RFC 1905 [4] which define two versions of the
     protocol used for network access to managed objects.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.


3.1.  Object Definitions

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) defined in the
SMI.  In particular, each object type is named by an OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
an administratively assigned name.  The object type together with an
object instance serves to uniquely identify a specific instantiation of
the object.  For human convenience, we often use a textual string,
termed the descriptor, to refer to the object type.






















Expires August 1998                                             [Page 3]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


4.  Overview

This MIB module contains two tables:

(1)  the IGMP Interface Table which contains one row for each interface
     on which IGMP is enabled, and

(2)  the IGMP Cache Table which contains one row for each IP multicast
     group for which there are members on a particular interface.

Both tables are intended to be implemented by hosts and routers, but
some columnar objects in each table apply only to routers.






































Expires August 1998                                             [Page 4]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


5.  Definitions

IGMP-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, experimental, Counter32, Gauge32,
    Integer32, IpAddress, TimeTicks  FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    RowStatus, TruthValue            FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP  FROM SNMPv2-CONF;


igmpMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9802181330Z"
    ORGANIZATION "IETF IDMR Working Group."
    CONTACT-INFO
            " Keith McCloghrie
              Cisco Systems, Inc.
              170 West Tasman Drive
              San Jose, CA  95134-1706
              US

              Phone: +1 408 526 5260
              EMail: kzm@cisco.com"
    DESCRIPTION
            "The MIB module for IGMP Management."
    ::= { experimental 59 }


igmpMIBObjects     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { igmpMIB 1 }

igmp      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { igmpMIBObjects 1 }



















Expires August 1998                                             [Page 5]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


--
--  The IGMP Interface Table
--

igmpInterfaceTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF IgmpInterfaceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing the interfaces on which IGMP
            is enabled."
    ::= { igmp 1 }

igmpInterfaceEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IgmpInterfaceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) representing an interface on
            which IGMP is enabled."
    INDEX      { igmpInterfaceIfIndex }
    ::= { igmpInterfaceTable 1 }

IgmpInterfaceEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    igmpInterfaceIfIndex               Integer32,
    igmpInterfaceQueryInterval         Integer32,
    igmpInterfaceStatus                RowStatus,
    igmpInterfaceVersion               INTEGER,
    igmpInterfaceQuerier               IpAddress,
    igmpInterfaceQueryMaxResponseTime  Integer32,
    igmpInterfaceQuerierPresentTimeout Integer32,   -- deprecated
    igmpInterfaceLeaveEnabled          TruthValue,  -- deprecated
    igmpInterfaceVersion1QuerierTimer  Integer32,
    igmpInterfaceWrongVersionQueries   Counter32,
    igmpInterfaceJoins                 Counter32,
    igmpInterfaceLeaves                Counter32,   -- deprecated
    igmpInterfaceGroups                Gauge32,
    igmpInterfaceRobustness            Integer32,
    igmpInterfaceProxyIfIndex          Integer32,
    igmpInterfaceLastMembQueryIntvl    Integer32
}

igmpInterfaceIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible





Expires August 1998                                             [Page 6]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The ifIndex value of the interface for which IGMP is
            enabled."
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 1 }

igmpInterfaceQueryInterval OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The frequency at which IGMP Host-Query packets are
            transmitted on this interface."
    DEFVAL     { 125 }
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 2 }

igmpInterfaceStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The activation of a row enables IGMP on the interface.  The
            destruction of a row disables IGMP on the interface."
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 3 }

igmpInterfaceVersion OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER { version1(1), version2(2) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The version of IGMP which is running on this interface.
            This object can be used to configure a router capable of
            running either value.  For IGMP to function correctly, all
            routers on a LAN must be configured to run the same version
            of IGMP on that LAN."
    DEFVAL     { version2 }
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 4 }

igmpInterfaceQuerier OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The address of the IGMP Querier on the IP subnet to which





Expires August 1998                                             [Page 7]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


            this interface is attached."
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 5 }

igmpInterfaceQueryMaxResponseTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The maximum query response time advertised in IGMPv2
            queries on this interface."
    DEFVAL     { 10 }
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 6 }

igmpInterfaceQuerierPresentTimeout OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "A timeout interval.  If no IGMPv2 queries are heard on this
            interface within this timeout interval, the local router
            will take over the Querier on the IP subnet to which this
            interface is attached.  This object is now deprecated, since
            its value can be derived from igmpInterfaceRobustness."
    DEFVAL     { 255 }
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 7 }

igmpInterfaceLeaveEnabled OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "An indication of whether the processing of IGMPv2 Leave
            messages is enabled on this interface.  This object is now
            deprecated since it must be true when igmpInterfaceVersion
            is version2, and must be false when it is version1 to comply
            with the IGMP specfication."
    DEFVAL     { true }
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 8 }

igmpInterfaceVersion1QuerierTimer OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-only





Expires August 1998                                             [Page 8]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The time remaining until the host assumes that there are no
            IGMPv1 routers present on the interface.  While this is
            non-zero, the host will reply to all queries with version 1
            membership reports."
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 9 }

igmpInterfaceWrongVersionQueries OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of queries received whose IGMP version does not
            match igmpInterfaceVersion.   IGMP requires that all routers
            on a LAN be configured to run the same version of IGMP.
            Thus, if any queries are received with the wrong version,
            this indicates a configuration error."
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 10 }

igmpInterfaceJoins OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of times a group membership has been added on
            this interface; that is, the number of times an entry for
            this interface has been added to the Cache Table.  This
            object gives an indication of the amount of IGMP activity
            over time."
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 11 }

igmpInterfaceLeaves OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of times a group membership has been removed
            from this interface; that is, the number of times an entry
            for this interface has been deleted from the Cache Table.
            This object is deprecated since its value cannot be usefully
            compared with igmpInterfaceJoins to get the number of groups
            joined.  Instead, igmpInterfaceGroups gives the number of
            groups joined, which may be compared with igmpInterfaceJoins
            to derive the number of leaves."





Expires August 1998                                             [Page 9]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 12 }

igmpInterfaceGroups OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Gauge32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The current number of entries for this interface in the
            Cache Table."
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 13 }

igmpInterfaceRobustness OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The Robustness Variable allows tuning for the expected
            packet loss on a subnet.  If a subnet is expected to be
            lossy, the Robustness Variable may be increased.  IGMP is
            robust to (Robustness Variable-1) packet losses."
    DEFVAL     { 2 }
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 14 }

igmpInterfaceLastMembQueryIntvl OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "tenths of seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The Last Member Query Interval is the Max Response Time
            inserted into Group-Specific Queries sent in response to
            Leave Group messages, and is also the amount of time between
            Group-Specific Query messages.  This value may be tuned to
            modify the leave latency of the network.  A reduced value
            results in reduced time to detect the loss of the last
            member of a group."
    DEFVAL     { 10 }
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 15 }

igmpInterfaceProxyIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Some devices implement a form of IGMP proxying whereby





Expires August 1998                                            [Page 10]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


            memberships learned on the interface represented by this
            row, cause IGMP Host Membership Reports to be sent on the
            interface whose ifIndex value is given by this object.  Such
            a device would implement the igmpV2RouterMIBGroup only on
            its router interfaces (those interfaces whose ifIndex value
            is given by this object on some interface).  Typically, the
            value of this object is 0, indicating that no proxying is
            being done."
    DEFVAL     { 0 }
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 16 }

--
--  The IGMP Cache Table
--

igmpCacheTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF IgmpCacheEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing the IP multicast groups for
            which there are members on a particular interface."
    ::= { igmp 2 }

igmpCacheEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IgmpCacheEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the igmpCacheTable."
    INDEX      { igmpCacheAddress, igmpCacheIfIndex }
    ::= { igmpCacheTable 1 }


















Expires August 1998                                            [Page 11]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


IgmpCacheEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    igmpCacheAddress            IpAddress,
    igmpCacheIfIndex            Integer32,
    igmpCacheSelf               TruthValue,
    igmpCacheLastReporter       IpAddress,
    igmpCacheUpTime             TimeTicks,
    igmpCacheExpiryTime         TimeTicks,
    igmpCacheStatus             RowStatus,
    igmpCacheVersion1HostTimer  Integer32
}

igmpCacheAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP multicast group address for which this entry
            contains information."
    ::= { igmpCacheEntry 1 }

igmpCacheIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The interface for which this entry contains information for
            an IP multicast group address."
    ::= { igmpCacheEntry 2 }

igmpCacheSelf OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An indication of whether the local system is a member of
            this group address on this interface."
    DEFVAL     { true }
    ::= { igmpCacheEntry 3 }

igmpCacheLastReporter OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the source of the last membership report





Expires August 1998                                            [Page 12]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


            received for this IP Multicast group address on this
            interface.  If no membership report has been received, this
            object has the value 0.0.0.0."
    ::= { igmpCacheEntry 4 }

igmpCacheUpTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The time since the system joined this group address, or
            zero if the system is not currently a member."
    ::= { igmpCacheEntry 5 }

igmpCacheExpiryTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The minimum amount of time remaining before this entry will
            be aged out."
    ::= { igmpCacheEntry 6 }

igmpCacheStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this entry."
    ::= { igmpCacheEntry 7 }

igmpCacheVersion1HostTimer OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The time remaining until the local router will assume that
            there are no longer any IGMP version 1 members on the IP
            subnet attached to this interface.  Upon hearing any IGMPv1
            Membership Report, this value is reset to the group
            membership timer.  While this time remaining is non-zero,
            the local router ignores any IGMPv2 Leave messages for this
            group that it receives on this interface."
    ::= { igmpCacheEntry 8 }





Expires August 1998                                            [Page 13]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


-- conformance information

igmpMIBConformance
               OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { igmpMIB 2 }
igmpMIBCompliances
               OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { igmpMIBConformance 1 }
igmpMIBGroups  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { igmpMIBConformance 2 }


-- compliance statements

igmpV1HostMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for hosts running IGMPv1 and
            implementing the IGMP MIB."
    MODULE  -- this module
    MANDATORY-GROUPS { igmpBaseMIBGroup }

    OBJECT     igmpInterfaceStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
             "Write access is not required."

    ::= { igmpMIBCompliances 1 }

igmpV1RouterMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for routers running IGMPv1 and
            implementing the IGMP MIB."
    MODULE  -- this module
         MANDATORY-GROUPS { igmpBaseMIBGroup,
                       igmpRouterMIBGroup
                     }

    OBJECT     igmpInterfaceStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
             "Write access is not required."

    ::= { igmpMIBCompliances 2 }

igmpV2HostMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current





Expires August 1998                                            [Page 14]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for hosts running IGMPv2 and
            implementing the IGMP MIB."
    MODULE  -- this module
    MANDATORY-GROUPS { igmpBaseMIBGroup,
                       igmpV2HostMIBGroup
                     }

    OBJECT     igmpInterfaceStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
             "Write access is not required."

    ::= { igmpMIBCompliances 3 }

igmpV2RouterMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for routers running IGMPv2 and
            implementing the IGMP MIB."
    MODULE  -- this module
    MANDATORY-GROUPS { igmpBaseMIBGroup,
                       igmpRouterMIBGroup,
                       igmpV2RouterMIBGroup
                     }

    OBJECT     igmpInterfaceStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
             "Write access is not required."

    ::= { igmpMIBCompliances 4 }


-- units of conformance

igmpBaseMIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { igmpCacheSelf, igmpCacheLastReporter,
              igmpCacheStatus, igmpInterfaceStatus
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The basic collection of objects providing management of
            IGMP version 1 or 2."
    ::= { igmpMIBGroups 1 }





Expires August 1998                                            [Page 15]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


igmpRouterMIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { igmpCacheUpTime, igmpCacheExpiryTime,
              igmpInterfaceQueryInterval
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of additional objects for management of IGMP
            version 1 or 2 in routers."
    ::= { igmpMIBGroups 2 }


igmpV2HostMIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { igmpInterfaceQuerier,
              igmpInterfaceVersion1QuerierTimer
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of additional objects for management of IGMP
            version 2 in hosts."
    ::= { igmpMIBGroups 3 }

igmpRouterVersion2MIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { igmpInterfaceVersion,
              igmpInterfaceQueryMaxResponseTime,
              igmpInterfaceQuerierPresentTimeout,
              igmpInterfaceLeaveEnabled,
              igmpInterfaceWrongVersionQueries,
              igmpInterfaceJoins,
              igmpInterfaceLeaves,
              igmpCacheVersion1HostTimer
            }
    STATUS  deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of additional objects for management of IGMP
            version 2 in routers.  This group has been obsoleted by
            igmpV2RouterMIBGroup."
    ::= { igmpMIBGroups 4 }

igmpV2RouterMIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { igmpInterfaceVersion, igmpInterfaceQuerier,
              igmpInterfaceQueryMaxResponseTime,
              igmpInterfaceRobustness,
              igmpInterfaceWrongVersionQueries,
              igmpInterfaceJoins, igmpInterfaceGroups,
              igmpInterfaceLastMembQueryIntvl,





Expires August 1998                                            [Page 16]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


              igmpCacheVersion1HostTimer
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of additional objects for management of IGMP
            version 2 in routers."
    ::= { igmpMIBGroups 5 }

igmpV2ProxyMIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { igmpInterfaceProxyIfIndex }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of additional objects for management of IGMP
            proxy devices."
    ::= { igmpMIBGroups 6 }

END

































Expires August 1998                                            [Page 17]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


6.  References

[1]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, "Structure of Management Information for version 2
     of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902,
     January 1996.

[2]  McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II", STD 17,
     RFC 1213, March 1991.

[3]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin, "Simple Network
     Management Protocol", RFC 1157, May 1990.

[4]  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
     S. Waldbusser, "Protocol Operations for version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

[5]  Deering, S., "Host Extensions for IP Multicasting", RFC 1112,
     Stanford University, August 1989.

[6]  Waitzman, D., Partridge, C., and S.E. Deering, "Distance Vector
     Multicast Routing Protocol", RFC 1075, Bolt Beranek and Newman,
     Stanford University, November 1988.

[7]  Estrin, D., Farinacci, D., Helmy, A., Thaler, D., Deering, S.,
     Handley, M., Jacobson, V., Liu, C., and P. Sharma, "Protocol
     Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM): Protocol
     Specification", RFC 2117, June 1997.

[8]  Estrin, D., Farinacci, D., Jacobson, V., Liu, C., Wei, L., Sharma,
     P, and Helmy, A., "Protocol Independent Multicast-Dense Mode (PIM-
     DM): Protocol Specification", January 1996.

[9]  Moy, J., "Multicast Extensions to OSPF", RFC 1584, Proteon, March
     1994.

[10] Ballardie, A. J., "Core Based Trees (CBT version 2) Multicast
     Routing: Protocol Specification", RFC 2189, September 1997.

[11] Fenner, W., "Internet Group Management Protocol, Version 2", RFC
     2236, November 1997.








Expires August 1998                                            [Page 18]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


7.  Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.


8.  Author's Address

     Keith McCloghrie
     cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive
     San Jose, CA  95134-1706
     Phone: +1 408 526 5260
     EMail: kzm@cisco.com

     Dino Farinacci
     cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive
     San Jose, CA  95134-1706
     Phone: +1 408 526 4696
     EMail: dino@cisco.com

     Dave Thaler
     Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
     University of Michigan
     1301 Beal Ave.
     Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2122
     Phone: +1 313 763 5243
     EMail: thalerd@eecs.umich.edu






















Expires August 1998                                            [Page 19]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


Table of Contents


1 Introduction ....................................................    1
2 Revision History ................................................    2
3 The SNMP Network Management Framework ...........................    3
3.1 Object Definitions ............................................    3
4 Overview ........................................................    4
5 Definitions .....................................................    5
6 References ......................................................   18
7 Security Considerations .........................................   19
8 Author's Address ................................................   19






































Expires August 1998                                            [Page 20]
