Internet Draft                    Shanghai Hongchuang WEB Technology 
Service Co., Ltd. Intended Status: Experimental Tian Guorong Expires: 
Oct., 2015 Shen Jun Curtis Young Apr. 16, 2015

HIEP: HTB Internet E-wallet Protocol draft-tianguorong-hiep-03 This 
Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the provisions of 
BCP 78 and BCP 79.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task 
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups. Note that other groups 
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months 
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any 
time. It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material 
or to cite them other than as "work in progress".

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at 
http://www.ietf.org/1id-abstracts.html

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at 
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html

This Internet-Draft will expire on Oct., 2015.

Copyright (c) 2013 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the 
document authors. All rights reserved. This document is subject to BCP 
78 and the IETF Trust's Legal Provisions Relating to IETF Documents 
(http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of 
publication of this document. Please review these documents carefully, 
as they describe your rights and restrictions with respect to this 
document.

Abstract: This document describes an online-paying method that realizes 
the paying addressing on the basis of HTTP protocol. It is for the 
purpose to setup a normative and safe E-paying system standard, and 
specify the definition of E-paying. And in this version, we changed the 
identifier of this e-payment protocol into to replace the previous one 
because it COULD be typed from the existed code. 


Table of Contents 1. Introduction 2. Conventions used in the Document 
3. HIEP Problem Statements 4. The replacement of the payment domain 
name identifier 5. HIEP 6. HIEP Frame Format 7. HIEP Deployment 
Scenarios 8. Security Considerations 9. IANA Considerations 10. 
Conclusions 11. References


1. Introduction Till now, there's no one paying addressing language to 
realize the online paying or data set's interoperating that could be 
used for definite or name of E-currency's widely used. Under the 
promoting by W3C, the future generation WEB of the semantic web is 
defined as "the WEB concept structure which could be handled directly 
by the machine". On the background of this technology, this ID 
describes an E-currency paying public infrastructure of the bank pre-
positive system in the field of e- paying. Updated to this version, we 
would like to replace the previous identifier of the payment domain 
name as following 1.1 Definitions 1) HTB?: the identifier of paying 
domain or paying address. 2) HIEP: HTB Internet E-wallet Protocol. 3) 
username: the name the E-wallet; xxxbank: to mark the field of the E-
wallet Field/ =domain name (xxx) Root field abcbank.com/ 
=http://www.xxx xxxbank.com

2. Conventions used in this document The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", 
"REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMENDED", 
"MAY", AND "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as 
described in RFC-2119[RFC2119]. In this document, these words will 
appear with that interpretation only when in ALL CAPS. Lower case uses 
of these words are not to be interpreted as carrying RFC-2119 
significance.

3. HIEP Problem Statements At present, differentiation of the payment 
communication and system structure are formed by independent bank 
organizations or 3rd party payment company's leading position, that 
they are using different payment models to describe the objects, and 
formulate each standard. Those standards just extend the life time of 
each existed systems, instead ensure the data exchange or dataset's 
interoperation between different paying systems. Obviously, it will 
restrict the application field online paying, and it could not reach 
the ability and technique of handling the paying activities of all 
kinds of bank cards. The real-time of paying is finally a bottleneck 
problem of the E-business development. Without solving this problem, 
furthermore, it will bring the unsafe hidden trouble on the capital 
operation. For the time being, we can only say in own scope utmost, as 
it only can realize the online paying with safe within each own system. 
It cannot make the real-time online paying, and can not reach the 
comprehensive integration of huge scale (supranational, super-region, 
super- section). Currency's credit: The currency is a credit symbol of 
paying, people trust it to make it as the intermediation of 
substitution. It is accepted by the social due to its characteristic 
advantage comparing the metal money on "Gold Standard System" or 
"Silver Standard System". Obviously, the symbol in virtual paying 
organizations transaction MUST use a unique identifier, which could 
make into a definition when people using. This is the credit problem in 
the paying procedure.

4. The replacement of the HIEP payment domain name identifier

In this version of our HIEP ID, this part is the most important one to 
be declared that we changed the identifier of the HIEP payment domain 
name into ?. As the ? is an alphanumeric which COULD be typed according 
to the Unicode Standard Version 7.0 as following: This file contains an 
excerpt from the character code tables and list of character names for 
The Unicode Standard, Version 7.0 This file MIGHT be changed at any 
time without notice to reflect errata or other updates to the Unicode 
Standard. See http://www.unicode.org/errata/ for an up-to-date list of 
errata. See http://www.unicode.org/charts/ for access to a complete 
list of the latest character code charts. See 
http://www.unicode.org/charts/PDF/Unicode-7.0/ for charts showing only 
the characters added in Unicode 7.0. See 
http://www.unicode.org/Public/7.0.0/charts/ for a complete archived 
file of character code charts for Unicode 7.0.

And the is 24BD in the list, we make this replacement is in the purpose 
to make the further applications much easier to be used. So as the end 
users of our HIEP payment customers COULD input the domain name 
directly without further transformation. Hence, in our further 
articles every domain name WOULD be described by the new identifier ?.

5. HIEP This ID names and cites an unique ? identifier to express the 
field which the user exists. The form is xxx (user) xxxbank.com. 
xxx(user) is the domain name, and xxxbank.com is the root field. On 
this basis, to resolve the xxx(user)xxxbank.com by http in order to 
setup the paying communication protocol for regulating E-currency 
activities form. Combining with html web, it could structure paying 
space data integrated service platform and be used to setup bank pre-
positive e-paying system public infrastructure. A paying communication 
protocol is http//www.xxx xxxbank.com/, In order to avoid the complex 
of mis- operation by the web designer, it requires HTML and DOM API be 
designed into the ones which could not detect other script synchronous 
executing, even workers SHOULD obey this regulation with no exception. 
(Note: In this mode, navigator, yield for storage update() equal to 
turning back the calling for keeping other scripts executing.  On this 
base, the purpose of HIEP is to make the operation thought to be 
execution step by step the context paying scripts from the ID in order 
to execute the HIEP termination's display data passing to the client 
ends smooth. The client ends here are PCs or non-PCs using different 
structure systems, i.e. the computers operating UNIX, Linux or DOS etc. 
Through the HIEP protocol, the computer could get the corresponding 
services from the remote operating server. Furthermore, it's structure 
supports multi point data transport, that could transfer to data from 
end server program to every client ends. i.e. Data are transported to 
multi destinations for synchronous execution from a real time 
application program. Here, we would design an  e-wallet structure 
public account system supplying interface standard to connect with bank 
e-paying system, as it could interoperate the data between them. 5.1 
General Design 5.2 System Module Division 5.3 Paying Application 5.4 e-
top Management Platform

6. HIEP Frame Format 6.1 HIEP Paying Protocol Description 6.1.1 HIEP 
Paying Net Definition HIEP cites a  (htb) as the unique identifier 
globally as the field of bank accounts for the seller and buyer. The 
format is user   E.wallet bank, on the http.connection internet, the 
communication connect of the (htb) e-wallet is http://www.  bank.com/. 
The  is used as the only paying domain name or add. to realize that the 
users could make the paying transaction at anytime, anywhere, by any 
method, to any account. HIEP Paying Net Technical Frame HIEP consists 
of:  domain name registration adm. organization,  domain name global 
resolution service center, E-wallet paying transaction platform, HIEP 
Paying Net Account Settlement Center 1. Domain Name Registration Adm. 
Organization: in charge of the domain name application response and 
domain information management maintenance. 2.Domain Name Global 
Resolution Service Center: take the responsibility of domain name 
resolution service. It will parse the name into the detail paying 
parameters including the bank account no., holder's relative financial 
information etc. 3.E-wallet Paying Transaction Platform: It carries all 
the 3rd business system accessing, the HIEP paying requests and dealing 
routes. It will pass all the HIEP paying requests from business onto 
the all the paying institutions which support the HIEP paying protocol 
standard. 4. HIEP Paying Net Account Settlement Center: It works to 
calculate and deal all the dealing data according to transaction 
records, and inform all the accessed the financial institutions to make 
the money settlement on time.

6.1.2 HIEP Transaction Flow chart:

Handling Procedure Description: 1.The 3rd business platform (i.e one 
merchant site) sent the paying request to HIEP www paying gateway. 
2.www Gateway transmit the request to the  global resolution center to 
get the relative paying factors. 3.www Gateway transmit the requests to 
the channels accessing operation system. 4.The channel accessing 
operation system sends the related  account information to the account 
adm. System. 5.Account Adm. System sends the order data to the Trust 
System to check the trust data and information. 6.The Trust System 
returns the trust data to the Account Adm. System. 7.Account Adm. 
System sends the transaction data to the Risk Control System. 8.Risk 
Control System reverts with the risk treating result. 9.Account Adm. 
System processes the transaction data according to the HIEP regulations 
on the base of dealing result from Trust System and Risk Control 
System, and reverts the process result to the Channel Accessing 
Operation System. 10.Channel Accessing Operation System will pass the 
transaction requests routing to the related paying institutions (Banks 
or 3rd paying parties). 11.Paying Institutions revert the paying 
results. 12.Channel Accessing Operation System turns the paying results 
back the www paying gateway. 13.The www paying gateway inform the 3rd 
business platform with the transaction result.

6.1.3 Paying Mode Statement: 1.The individual user choose the commodity 
on the 3rd business platform to create an order. 2.The individual user 
send the paying request message to its own  domain name from the 3rd 
business platform after confirmation of the order. The send message is 
http html format, which includes the amount, domain name of seller and 
buyer, commodity information, security certificate data, MAC verifying 
information etc. 3.The www paying gateway of HIEP responses on the 
requests, and resolve them into the HIEP protocol messages between the 
related financial institutions via HIEP's domain parse system and 
channels accessing operation system. 4.HIEP Paying Net reverts the 
paying request handling results from the financial institution to the 
request launcher's  domain name (URL). 

6.1.4 Transaction request message example: <!DOCTYPE html PUBLIC "-
//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" 
"http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd"> <HTML><! 
...bank.com=HTTP...!> <Line string srs 
Name=http://openHICS.net/RBAC/srs/DRM.xml> String.url=http://www.. 
..bank.com/> <head> <meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; 
charset=utf-8" /> <title> Single transaction consuming front stage 
display example</title> </head> <body> <form action="abc" 
method="post"> <input type="hidden" name="account" value="abc.abc.com" 
alt="Account Field" /> <input type="hidden" name="bindid" value="sss" 
alt="Account bounded ID, each ID should map to its account field. Only 
when the ID bounded to the account field, it could be used for 
transaction." /> <input type="hidden" name="biandpassword" value="xxx" 
alt=" Each bounded ID should set a password, which is used to 
transaction. In order to satisfy some scenarios, the password is needed 
to deal the transaction between bounded ID and account field. " /> 
<input type="hidden" name="pid" value="" alt="Commodity No." /> <input 
type="hidden" name="pname" value="" alt="Commodity Name" /> <input 
type="hidden" name="price" value="" alt="Unit Price" /> <input 
type="hidden" name="amount" value="" alt="Quantity" /> <input 
type="hidden" name="busitype" value="" alt="Business Type" /> <input 
type="hidden" name="trantype" value="" alt="Deal Type" /> <input 
type="hidden" name="total" value="" alt="Total Amount" /> <input 
type="hidden" name="mid" value="" alt="Merchant No." /> <input 
type="hidden" name="bookid" value="" alt="Order NO." /> <input 
type="hidden" name="bookdate" value="" alt="Order Date" /> <input 
type="hidden" name="transdate" value="" alt="Order Time" /> <input 
type="hidden" name="currency" value="" alt="Currency" /> <input 
type="hidden" name="signtype" value="" alt="Signature Type" /> <input 
type="hidden" name="sign" value="" alt="Sign" /> <input type="hidden" 
name="country" value="" alt="Country ID" /> <input type="hidden" 
name="timezone" value="" alt="Time Zone" /> <input type="hidden" 
name="ip" value="" alt="IP Add." /> </form> </body> </html>

6.2 HIEP Paying Net Security & Authentication 6.2.1 Communication 
Security Use encryption transmission for the key phrases (sensitive 
info as: card no., password, CVN, validity etc.) interaction with 
external systems. 6.2.2 Data Security Password Protection System Using 
different algorithms for the users logging and account passwords which 
saves in the system database. 6.2.3 Data Communication Security In 
order to avoid tampering with the data, the communication data needs to 
increase the verifying fields. 6.2.4 External Systems Use RSA sign 
algorithms for those key data fields. 6.2.5 Internal Systems Use DES 
CBC to create the abstract. 6.2.6 Date Storage Security All the saved 
account and ID no. etc. should be encrypted to avoid the embezzlement.

7. HIEP Deployment Scenarios 7.1 The WEB structure from HIEP system 7.2 
The commercial bank net structure on the base of HIEP

7.3 HIEP Paying Modes comparing with the existed types of paying modes

8. Security Considerations In order to realize the interconnection and 
mutual certification, the HIEP mutual information approval is refer to 
X.509V3 extension. It is merged into PKCS#12, the indicated HTB domain 
name MUST be the first level domain name of a bank. Bind the user's 
public key information with other identified information including the 
username and email add., to complete the certification of users on the 
internet.

9.IANA Considerations The IANA will configure the HTB port for HIEP.

10.Conclusions This document describes the pre-position E-currency 
paying public infrastructure of bank in the field of the internet E-
paying, that realize the HIEP on the HTTP protocol according to the 
open standard of W3C.

11.References: [RFC2119] Bradner, S., "Key Words for use in RFCs to 
Indicate Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997 [RFC2616] R. 
Fielding, J. Gettys, J. Mogul, H. Frystyk, L. Masinter, P. Leach, T. 
Berners-Lee, "Hypertext Transfer Protocol - HTTP/1.1", June 1999 
[RFC1866] T. Berners- Lee, D. Connolly, "Hypertext Markup Language -
2.0", November 1995

Author's Address: Tian Guorong Shanghai Hongchuang WEB Technology 
Service Co., Ltd. Bldg 14, Xinyun Economic Zone, Lane 3199 Zhenbei Rd. 
Shanghai, China Phone no.: 0086 135 8592 1617 Email: bill.tian@shcn.cc

Shen Jun Phone No.: 0086 133 0171 0551 Email: jun.shen@shcn.cc

Curtis Yang Phone No.: 0086 138 0178 0703 Email: curtis.yang@shcn.cc
