CCAMP Working Group                                       Zafar Ali
Internet Draft                                   Antonello Bonfanti
Intended status: Informational                         Matt Hartley
                                                      Cisco Systems
                                                           F. Zhang
                                                Huawei Technologies
Expires: March 10, 2016                          September 10, 2015


     Resource ReserVation Protocol-Traffic Engineering (RSVP-TE)
          Extension for Additional Signal Types in G.709 OTN
        draft-ietf-ccamp-additional-signal-type-g709v3-02.txt


Status of this Memo

This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
Task Force (IETF). Note that other groups may also distribute
working documents as Internet-Drafts. The list of current Internet-
Drafts is at http://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
documents at any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts
as reference material or to cite them other than as "work in
progress."

This Internet-Draft will expire on March 10, 2015.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (c) 2015 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
document authors. All rights reserved.

This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
Provisions Relating to IETF Documents
(http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info) in effect on the date of
publication of this document. Please review these documents
carefully, as they describe your rights and restrictions with
respect to this document. Code Components extracted from this
document must include Simplified BSD License text as described in
Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are provided without
warranty as described in the Simplified BSD License.

This document may contain material from IETF Documents or IETF
Contributions published or made publicly available before November



Expires March 2016                                       [Page 1]

Internet-Draft draft-ietf-ccamp-additional-signal-type-g709v3-
02.txt

10, 2008.  The person(s) controlling the copyright in some of this
material may not have granted the IETF Trust the right to allow
modifications of such material outside the IETF Standards Process.
Without obtaining an adequate license from the person(s)
controlling the copyright in such materials, this document may not
be modified outside the IETF Standards Process, and derivative
works of it may not be created outside the IETF Standards Process,
except to format it for publication as an RFC or to translate it
into languages other than English.

Abstract

[RFC4328] and [RFC7139] provide the extensions to Generalized
Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS) signaling to control the
full set of OTN features including ODU0, ODU1, ODU2, ODU3, ODU4,
ODU2e and ODUflex. However, these specifications do not cover the
additional signal types ODU1e, ODU3e1, and ODU3e2 mentioned in
[G.Sup43]. This draft provides GMPLS signaling extensions for these
additional signal types.

Conventions used in this document

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in
this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119
[RFC2119].

Table of Contents

   1. Introduction 2
   2. RSVP-TE extension for Additional Signal Types 3
   3. Security Considerations 3
   4. IANA Considerations 3
   5. Acknowledgments 3
   6. References 3
     6.1. Normative References 3
     6.2. Informative References 4

1. Introduction

   [RFC7139] updates the ODU-related portions of [RFC4328] to
   provide Resource ReserVation Protocol-Traffic Engineering (RSVP-
   TE) extensions to support control for [G.709-v3]. However, it
   does not cover additional signal types mentioned in [G.Sup43]
   (ODU1e, ODU3e1, and ODU3e2). This draft provides GMPLS signaling
   extension to support these additional signal types mentioned in
   [G.Sup43].




                     Expires March 2016                  [Page 2]

Internet-Draft draft-ietf-ccamp-additional-signal-type-g709v3-
02.txt

2. RSVP-TE extension for Additional Signal Types

   [RFC7139] defines the format of Traffic Parameters in OTN-TDM
   SENDER_TSPEC and OTN-TDM FLOWSPEC objects. These traffic
   parameters have a signal type field. This document defines the
   signal type for ODU1e, ODU3e1 and ODU3e2 as defined in the IANA
   considerations section.


3. Security Considerations

   This document does not introduce any additional security issues
   above those identified in [RFC7139].

4. IANA Considerations

   This document defines signal type for ODU1e, ODU3e1 and ODU3e2,
   as follows:
             Value     Type
             -----     ----
               TBD      ODU1e  (10Gbps Ethernet [GSUP.43])
               TBD      ODU3e1 (40Gbps Ethernet [GSUP.43])
               TBD      ODU3e2 (40Gbps Ethernet [GSUP.43])

   These signaled types are carried in Traffic Parameters in OTN-
   TDM SENDER_TSPEC and OTN-TDM FLOWSPEC objects [RFC7139].

5. Acknowledgments

   The authors would like to thank Lou Berger, Adrian Farrel and
   Sudip Shukla for comments.

6. References


6.1. Normative References

   [RFC2119] Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
             Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

   [RFC4328] Papadimitriou, D., Ed., "Generalized Multi-Protocol
             Label Switching (GMPLS) Signaling Extensions for G.709
             Optical Transport Networks Control", RFC 4328, January
             2006.

   [RFC7139] Zhang, F., Ed., Zhang, G., Belotti, S., Ceccarelli,
             D., and K. Pithewan, "GMPLS Signaling Extensions for
             Control of Evolving G.709 Optical Transport Networks",
             RFC 7139, March 2014.

                     Expires March 2016                  [Page 3]

Internet-Draft draft-ietf-ccamp-additional-signal-type-g709v3-
02.txt

   [RFC7139] F.Zhang, G.Zhang, S.Belotti, D.Ceccarelli, K.Pithewan,
             "Generalized Multi-Protocol Label Switching (GMPLS)
             Signaling Extensions for the evolving G.709 Optical
             Transport Networks Control, draft-ietf-ccamp-gmpls-
             signaling-g709v3, work in progress.

6.2. Informative References

   [G.709-v3] ITU-T, "Interface for the Optical Transport Network
             (OTN)", G.709/Y.1331 Recommendation, February, 2012.

   [GSUP.43] ITU-T, "Proposed revision of G.sup43 (for agreement)",
             February, 2011.

Authors' Addresses


   Zafar Ali
   Cisco Systems
   Email: zali@cisco.com

   Antonello Bonfanti
   Cisco Systems
   abonfant@cisco.com

   Matt Hartley
   Cisco Systems
   mhartley@cisco.com

   Fatai Zhang
   Huawei Technologies
   Email: zhangfatai@huawei.com



















                     Expires March 2016                  [Page 4]

