
Network Working Group                                Philip J. Nesser II 
draft-ietf-2000-issue-04.txt                  Nesser & Nesser Consulting 
Internet Draft                                               August 1998


        The Internet and the Millennium Problem (Year 2000)

Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet Draft. Internet Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its Areas,
and its Working Groups. Note that other groups may also distribute
working documents as Internet Drafts.

Internet Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
months. Internet Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by
Internet Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
months. Internet Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by
other documents at any time. It is not appropriate to use Internet
Drafts as reference material or to cite them other than as a "working
draft" or "work in progress".

Please check the I-D abstract listing contained in each Internet
Draft directory to learn the current status of this or any other
Internet Draft.


Abstract

The Year 2000 Working Group(WG) has conducted an investigation into
the millennium problem as it regards Internet related protocols.  This
investigation only targeted the protocols as documented in the Request
For Comments Series (RFCs).  This investigation discovered little
reason for concern with regards to the functionality of the protocols.
A few minor cases of older implementations still using two digit years
(ala RFC 850) were discovered, but almost all Internet protocols were
given a clean bill of health.  Several cases of "period" problems were
discovered, where a time field would "roll over" as the size of field
was reached.  In particular, there are several protocols, which have
32 bit, signed integer representations of the number of seconds since
January 1, 1970 which will turn negative at Tue Jan 19 03:14:07 GMT
2038.  Areas whose protocols will be effected by such problems have
been notified so that new revisions will remove this limitation.

1. Introduction

According to the trade press billions of dollars will be spend the
upcoming years on the year 2000 problem, also called the millennium
problem (though the third millennium will really start in 2001). This
problem consists of the fact that many software packages and some
protocols use a two-digit field for the year in a date field. Most of
the problems seem to be in administrative and financial programs, or
in the hardcoded microcomputers found in electronic equipment.  A lot
of organizations are now starting to make an inventory of which
software and tools they use will suffer from the millennium problem.

With the increasing popularity of the Internet, more and more
organizations use the Internet as a serious business tool.  This means
that most organizations will want to analyze the millennium problems
due to the use of Internet protocols and popular Internet software. In
the trade press the first articles suggest that the Internet will
collapse at midnight the 31st of December 1999.

To counter these suggestions, and to avoid having countless companies
redo the same investigation, this effort was undertaken by the IETF.
The Year 2000 WG has made an inventory of all-important Internet
protocols that have been documented in the Request for Comments (RFC)
series.  Only protocols directly related to the Internet will be
considered.

This document is divided into a number of sections.  Section 1 is 
the Introduction which you are now reading.  Section 2 is a 
disclaimer about the completeness of this effort.  Section 3 
describes areas in which millenium problems have been found, while 
Section 4 describes a few other "period" problems.  Section 5 
describes potential fixes to problems that have been identified.  
Section 6 describes the methodology used in the investigation.  
Sections 7 through 22 are devoted to the 15 different groupings of 
protocols and RFCs.  Section 23 discusses security considerations, 
Section 24 is devoted to references, and Section 25 is the author 
contact information.  Appendix A is the list of RFCs examined 
broken down by category.  Appendix B is a PERL program used to make
a first cut identification of problems, and Appendix C is the output
of that PERL program.

The editor of this document would like to acknowledge the critical
contributions of the follow for direct performance of research and the
provision of text: Alex Latzko, Robert Elz, Erik Huizer, Gillian
Greenwood, Barbara Jennings, R.E. (Robert) Moore, David Mills, Lynn
Kubinec, Michael Patton, Chris Newman, Erik-Jan Bos, Paul Hoffman, and
Rick H. Wesson.  The pace with which this group has operated has only
been achievable by the intimate familiarity of the contributors with
the protocols and ready access to the collective knowledge of the
IETF.


2. Disclaimer

This RFC is not complete.  It is an effort to analyze the Y2K impact
on hundreds of protocols but is likely to have missed some protocols
and misunderstood others.  Organizations should not attempt to claim
any legitimacy or approval for any particular protocol based on this
document.  The efforts have concentrated on the identification of
potential problems, rather than solutions to any of the problems that
have been identified. Any proposed solutions are only that: proposed.
A formal engineering review should take place before any solution is
adopted.

It should also be noted that the research was performd on RFCs 1
through 2128.  At that time the IESG was charted with not allowing
any new RFCs to be published that had any Year 2000 issues.   Since
that cutoff time there has been work to correct issues discovered by
this Working Group.  In particular, RWhois as documented by RFC 1714
has been updated to fix the problems found.  RFC 2167 now documents
a fixed version of the RWhois protocol.  The work of this group was
to look backwards, and hence new RFC's which supplant the old are
expected to make the information in this RFC obsolete.  The work of 
this group will truly be complete when this document is completely
obsolete.

A number of people have suggested looking into other "special" dates.  
For example, the first leap year, the first "double digit" day 
(January 10, 2000), January 1, 2001, etc.  There is not one place 
where days have been used in the protocols defined by the RFC series
so there is little reason to believe that any of these special dates
will have any impact.


3. Summary of Year 2000 Problems

Here is a brief description of all the Millennium issues discovered
in the course of this research.  Note that many of the RFCs are 
unclear on the issue.  They mandate the use of UTCTime but do not
specify whether the two-digit or four-digit year representation 
should be used.

3.1 "Directory Services"

    rfc1274.txt - References UTC date/time
    rfc1276.txt - References UTC date/time for version control.
    rfc1488.txt - References UTC Time as printable strings.
    rfc1608.txt - Refers to uTCTimeSyntax
    rfc1609.txt - Refers to uTCTimeSyntax
    rfc1778.txt - Refers to uTCTimeSyntax

3.2  "Information Services and File Transfer"

HTTP 1.1, as defined in RFC 2068, requires all newly generated date
stamps to conform to RFC 1123 date formats which are Year 2000
compliant, but it also requires acceptance of the older non-compliant
RFC850 formats.  Some specific recommendations have been passed to 
the HTTP WG.

HTML 2.0, as defined in RFC 1866, could allow a very subtle Year 2000
problem, but once again this recommendation has been passed on the
HTML WG.

RFC 1778 on String Representations of Standard Attribute Syntax's
define UTC Time in Section 2.21 and uses that definition in Section
2.25 on User Certificates.  Since UTC Time is being used, there is a
potential millennium issue.

RFC 1440 on SIFT/UFT: Sender-Initiated/Unsolicited File Transfer
defines an optional DATE command in Section 5 of the form mm/dd/yy
which is subject to millennium issues.

3.3 "Electronic Mail"

After reviewing all mail-related RFCs, it was discovered that while
some obsolete standards required two-digit years, all currently used
standards require four-digit years and are thus not prone to typical
Year 2000 problems.

RFCs 821 and 822, the main basis for SMTP mail exchange and message
format, originally required two-digit years. However, both of these
RFCs were later modified by RFC 1123 in 1989, which strongly
recommended 4-digit years.  

3.4 "Name Serving" 

While not a protocol issue, there is a common habit of writing serial
numbers for DNS zone files in the form YYXXXXXX.  The only real
requirement on the serial numbers is that they be increasing (see 
RFC 1982 for a complete description) and a change from 99XXXXXX to 
00XXXXXX cause a failure.  See the section on "Name Serving" for a 
complete description of the issues.

3.5  "Network Management"

Versions 1 & 2 of SNMP specify the use of UTCTime.  This could be an
issue depending on implementations.

3.6  "Network News"

There does exist a problem in both NNTP, RFC 977, and the Usenet News
Message Format, RFC 10336.  They both specify two-digit year format.
A working group has been formed to update the network news protocols
in general, and addressing this problem is on their list of work
items.

3.7  "Real-Time Services"

A Year 2000 problem does occur in the Simple Network Paging Protocol, 
versions 2 & 3. Both define a HOLDuntil option which uses a 
YYMMDDHHMMSS+/-GMT field. Version 3 also defines a MSTAtus command, 
which is required to store,dates and times as YYMMDDHHMMSS+/-GMT.

There is a small Year 2000 issue in RFC 1786 on the Representation of
IP Routing Policies in the ripe-81++ Routing Registry.  In Appendices
C the "changed" object parameter defines a format of <email-address>
YYMMDD, and similarly in Appendix D "withdrawn" object identifier has
he format of YYMMDD.  Since these are only identifiers there should be
little operational impact.  Some application software may need to be
modified.

3.8 "Security"

RFC 1507 on Distributed Authentication Security Services (DASS)
use UTCTime.  Because of the imprecision of the UTC time
definition there could be problems with this protocol.

RFCs 1421-1424 specifies that PEM uses UTC time formats which could
have a Millennium issue.


4. Summary of Other "Periodicity" Problems

By far, the largest area of "period" problems occurs in the year
2038.  Many protocols use a 32-bit field to record the number of
seconds since January 1, 1970.  

4.1  "Name Serivces"

DNS Security uses 32-bit timestamps which will roll over in 2038.  
This issue has been refered to the appropriate Working Group so that
the details of rollover can be established.

4.2  "Routing" 

IDPR suffers from the classic Year 2038 problem, by having a timestamp
counter which rolls over at that time.


5. Suggested Solutions

The real solution to the problem is to use 4 digit year fields for 
applications and hardware systems.  For counters that key off of a 
certain time (January 1, 1970 for example) need to either: define a 
wrapping solution, or to define a larger number space (greater than 
32-bits), or to make more efficient use of the 32-bit space.  A 
trivial example might be to use to lower 12 bits to represent the 
number of seconds in a day, and use next upper 19 bits to represent
days since January 1, 1970, and the set the highest bit to 1 so that
it is always larger than the current number of seconds since January
1, 1970.  This would provide a unique counter until May 28, 3406.
(There are some drawbacks to this example, the most obvious being 
the counter is no longer monotonically increasing.  It was only
included as a simple example, not a serious suggestion.)

However, it will be impossible to completely replace currently 
deployed systems, so solutions for handling problems are in order.

5.1 Fixed Solution

A number of organizations and groups have suggested a fixed solution 
to the problem of two digit years.  Given a two-digit year YY, if YY 
is greater than or equal to 50, the year shall be interpreted as 19YY;
and where YY is less than 50, the year shall be intrepreted as 20YY.

While a simple and straightforward solution, it only pushes the 
problem off 40 to 50 years, until the artificially generated Year 
2050 problem needs to be addressed.  However, it is easy to implement
and deploy, so it might be the most commonly adopted solution.

5.2 Sliding Window

Another solution is the "sliding window" approach.  In this approach, 
some value N is selected, and any two digit year that is less than or
equal to the current two digit year plus N is considered the future, 
while any other two digit year is considered in the past.

For example, choosing N equal to 10,  If the current year is 2012, and
I get a two digit year that is any of 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19,
20, 21 or 22, assume it is 20YY (i.e. the future), otherwise consider
it to be in the past(1923-1999, 2000-2011).  

This solution has two advantages.  First, no new fixed year problems 
are introduced.  Second, different applications and protocols could
choose different values of N.  The drawback is that this solution is
harder to implement, and to work well the value of N will need to be
constant across different implementations.


6. Methodology


The first task was dividing the types of RFC's into logical groups
rather than the strict numeric publishing order.  Sixteen specific
areas were identified.  They are: "Autoconfiguration" , "Directory
Services", "Disk Sharing", "Games and Chat" ,"Information Services &
File Transfer", "Network & Transport Layer", "Electronic Mail", "NTP",
Name Serving", "Network Management", "News", "Real Time Services",
"Routing", "Security", "Virtual Terminal", and "Other".  In addition 
to these categories, many hundreds of RFC's were immediately eliminated 
based on content.  That is not to say that all Informational RFC's were 
not considered, many did contain some technical content or overview 
whichdemanded scrutiny.

Each area was assigned to a team for investigation.  Although each
team used whatever additional investigation techniques which seemed
appropriate (including completely reading each RFC, and in some cases
the source code for the reference implementation) at minimum each team
used an automatic scanning system to search for the following items
(case insensitively) in each RFC:

     - date
     - GMT
     - UTCTime
     - year
     - yy (that is not part of yyyy)
     - two-digit, 2-digit, 2digit
     - century
     - 1900 & 2000

Note that all of these strings except "UTCTime" may occur in
conjunction with a date format that accommodates the Year 2000
crossing, as well as with one that does not.  So "hits" on these
string do not necessarily indicate Year 2000 problems: they simply
identify elements that need to be examined.

After the documents were scanned, therefore, each "hit" was examined
individually.  Those that cause no Year 2000 problems (e.g., those
that encode the year as a two-byte integer, or as a four-character
display string) are not discussed here.  Those that do cause Year 2000
problems are identified in this document, and the nature and impact of
the problems they cause are described.



7. Autoconfiguration

7.1 Summary

The RFC's which were categorized into this group were primarily the
BOOT Protocol (BOOTP) and the Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
(DHCP) for both IP version four and six.

Examination of the BOOTP protocols and most popular implementations
show no year 2000 problems.  All times are references as 32 bit
integers in seconds of UTC time.  An investigation of all DHCP and the
IPv6 Autoconfiguration mechanisms produced no year 2000 problems.  All
references to time, in particular lease lengths, are 32 bit integers
in seconds, allowing lease times of well over 100 years.


7.2 Specifics

The following RFCs were examined for possible millennium problems:
906, 951, 1048, 1084, 1395, 1497, 1531, 1532, 1533, 1534, 1541, 1542,
1970, & 1971.  RFC 951's only reference to time or dates is a two-byte
field in the packet, which is number of second since the hosts, was
booted.  RFC's 1048, 1084, 1395, 1497, 1531, & 1532 have either no
references to dates and time, or they are the same as the RFCs, which
obsoleted them, discussed in the next paragraph.

RFC 1533 enumerates all the known DHCP field types and a number of
these have to do with time.  Section 3.4 defines a "Time Offset" field
which specifies the offset of the clients subnet in seconds from UTC.
This 4 byte field has no millennium issues.  Section 9.2 defines the
IP Address Lease Time field which is used by clients to request a
specific lease time.  This four byte field is an unsigned integer
containing a number of seconds.  Section 9.9 defines a Renewal Time
Value field, Section 9.10 defines a Rebinding Time Value, both of
which are similarly 32 bit fields, which have no millennium issues.

RFC 1534 has no references to times or dates.

RFC 1541 has two mentions of times/dates.  The first is the "secs"
field which, similarly to RFC 951, is a 16-bit field for the number of
seconds since the host has booted.  There is also a discussion in
section 3.3 about "Interpretation and Representation of Time Values"
which while clearly states that there is no millennium or period
problems.

RFC 1542 also references the "secs" field mentioned previously.  

RFC 1970 mentions a number of variables, which are time related.  In
section 4.2 "Router Advertisement Message Format" the following fields
are defined: Router Lifetime, Reachable Time, & Retrans Timer.  In
section 4.6.2 "Prefix Information" the following are defined: Valid
Lifetime, & Preferred Lifetime.  In section 6.2.1 "Router
Configuration Variables the following are defined: MaxRtrAdvInterval,
MinRtrAdvInterval, AdvReachableTime, AdvRetransTimer,
AdvDefaultLifetime, AdvValidLifetime, & AdvPreferredLifetime.  All of
these fields specify counters of some sort which have no millennium or
periodicity problems.

RFC 1971 has some discussion of preferred lifetimes, depreciated
lifetimes and valid lifetimes of leases, but only discusses them in an
expository way.

8. Directory Services

8.1 Summary

The RFC's which were categorized into this group were primarily X.500
related RFC's, Whois, Rwhois, Whois++, and the Lightweight Directory
Access Protocol (LDAP).

Upon review of the Directory Services related RFC's, no serious year
2000 problems were discovered.  Some minor issues were noted and
explained below in the specific portion of this section.

8.2 Specifics

RFCs that mentioned UTC Time or made reference to uTCTimeSyntax could
fail to be Y2K compliant. These should be updated to specify the four
year version of uTCTimeSyntax rather than giving the option of using a
two-year date representation. The following RFCs fall into this
category:

    rfc1274.txt - References UTC date/time
    rfc1276.txt - References UTC date/time for version control.
    rfc1488.txt - References UTC Time as printable strings.
    rfc1608.txt - Refers to uTCTimeSyntax
    rfc1609.txt - Refers to uTCTimeSyntax
    rfc1778.txt - Refers to uTCTimeSyntax

Two RFC's have unusual date specifications and specify their own date
format. Both of these support Y2K compliant dates.
 
RFC1714 (RWhois) specifies date formats that are not Y2K compliant,
but it also supports dates that are. Implementers of the RWhois
protocol should only use the %MY4 format
 
RFC1834 (Whois++) requires the use of dates, but it didn't specify the
format, syntax, or representation of the date string to be used.



9. Disk Sharing

9.1 Summary

The RFC's which were categorized into this group were those related to
the Network File System (NFS).  Other popular disk sharing protocols
like SMB and AFS were referred to their respective trustee's for
review.

After careful review, NFS has no year 2000 problems.


9.2 Specifics

The references to time in this protocol are the times of file data
modification, file access, and file metadata change (mtime, atime, and
time, respectively).  These times are kept as 32 bit unsigned
quantities in seconds since 1970-01-01, and so the NFS protocol will
not experience an Epoch event until the year 2106.


10. Games and Chat

10.1 Summary

The RFC's which were categorized into this group were related to the
Internet Relay Chat Protocol (IRC).  No millennium problems exist in
the IRC protocol.


10.2 Specifics

There is only a single instance of time or date related information in
the IRC protocol as specified by RFC 1459.  Section 4.3.4 defines a
TIME message type which queries a server for its local time.  No
mention is made of the format of the reply or how it is parsed, the
assumption being specific implementations will handle the reply and
parse it appropriately.


11. Information Services & File Transfer

11.1 Summary

The RFC's which were categorized into this group were divided among
World Wide Web (WWW) protocols and File Transfer Protocols (FTP).  WWW
protocols include the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP), a variety of
Uniform Resource formats (URL, URAs, etc.) and the HyperText Markup
Language(HTML).  FTP protocols include the well known FTP protocol,
the Trivial File Transfer Protocol (TFTP) and a variety of extensions
to these protocols.  Other information services includes the Finger
Protocol and the LPD protocol.

HTTP 1.1, as defined in RFC 2068, requires all newly generated date
stamps to conform to RFC 1123 date formats which are Year 2000
compliant, but it also requires acceptance of the older non-compliant
RFC850 formats.  Some specific recommendations are listed below and
have been passed to the HTTP WG.

HTML 2.0, as defined in RFC 1866, could allow a very subtle Year 2000
problem, but once again this recommendation has been passed on the
HTML WG.

RFC 1778 on String Representations of Standard Attribute Syntax's
define UTC Time in Section 2.21 and uses that definition in Section
2.25 on User Certificates.  Since UTC Time is being used, there is a
potential millennium issue.

RFC 1440 on SIFT/UFT: Sender-Initiated/Unsolicited File Transfer
defines an optional DATE command in Section 5 of the form mm/dd/yy
which is subject to millennium issues.

11.2 Specifics

The main IETF standards-track document on the HTTP protocol is RFC2068
on HTTP 1.1.  It notes that historically three different date formats
have been used, and that one of them uses a two-digit year field.  In
section 3.3.1 it requires HTTP 1.1 implementations to generate this
RFC1123 format:
 
     Sun, 06 Nov 1994 08:49:37 GMT  ; RFC 822, updated by RFC 1123
 
instead of this RFC850 format:

     Sunday, 06-Nov-94 08:49:37 GMT ; RFC 850, obsoleted by RFC 1036
 
Unfortunately, many existing servers, serving on the order of one
fifth of the current HTTP traffic, send dates in the ambiguous RFC850
format.
 
Section 19.3 of the RFC2068 says this:
 
  o  HTTP/1.1 clients and caches should assume that an RFC-850 date
     which appears to be more than 50 years in the future is in fact
     in the past (this helps solve the "year 2000" problem).
 
This avoids a "stale cache" problem, which would cause the user to see
out-of-date data.


RFC 1986 documents experiments with a simple file transfer program
over radio links using Enhanced Trivial FTP (ETFTP).  There are a
number of timers defined which are all in seconds and have no year
2000 issues.

In RFC 1866, on HTML 2.0,the <META> tag allows the embedding of
recommended values for some HTTP headers, including Expires.  E.g.
 
    <META HTTP-EQUIV="Expires"
          CONTENT="Tue, 04 Dec 1993 21:29:02 GMT">
 
Servers should rewrite these dates into RFC1123 format if necessary.

RFC 1807 defines a format for bibliographic records and it specifies a
DATE format, which requires 4 digit year fields.

RFC 1788 defines ICMP Domain Name messages.  Section 3 defines a
Domain Name Reply Packet, which contains a signed 32-bit integer.
This timer is not Year 2000 reliant and is certainly large enough for
it purposes.

RFC 1784 on TFTP Timeout Intervals and Transfer Size Options uses a
field for the number of seconds for the timeout.  It is an ASCII value
from 1 to 255 octets in length.  There is no Y2K issue.

RFC 1778 on String Representations of Standard Attribute Syntax's
define UTC Time in Section 2.21 and uses that definition in Section
2.25 on User Certificates.  Since UTC Time is being used, there is a
potential millennium issue.

RFC 1777 on LDAP defines a timelimit in Section 4.3 which is expressed
in seconds, but does not define any limits.

RFC 1440 on SIFT/UFT: Sender-Initiated/Unsolicited File Transfer
defines an optional DATE command in Section 5 of the form mm/dd/yy,
which is subject to millennium issues.

RFC 1068 on the Background File Transfer Protocol (BFTP) defines two
commands in Sections B.2.12 and B.2.13, the Submit and Time commands.
>From the example usage's given in Appendix C it is clear that this
protocol will function correctly though the year 9999.

RFC 1037 on NFILE (a file access protocol) discusses the a Date
representation in Section 7.1 as the number of seconds since January
1, 1900, but does not limit the field size.  There should be no Y2K
issues.

RFC 998 on NETBLT defines a Death time in Section 8, which is the
sender's death time in seconds.

RFC 978 on the Voice File Interchange Protocol defines the Total Time
of a message to be a 32-bit number of deci-seconds.  This limits the
size of a message but has no millennium issues.

RFC 969 was obsoleted by RFC 998.

RFC 916 defines the Reliable Asynchronous Transfer Protocol (RATP).
Three timers are discussed in an expository manner in Section 5.4 and
its subsections.  There are no relevant issues.

RFCs 2122, 2056, 2055, 2054, 2044, 2016, 1960, 1959, 1874, 1865, 1862,
1843, 1842, 1823, 1815, 1808, 1798, 1785, 1783, 1782, 1779, 1766,
1738, 1737, 1736, 1729, 1728, 1727, 1639, 1633, 1630, 1625, 1554,
1545, 1530, 1529, 1528, 1489, 1486, 1436, 1415, 1413, 1350, 1345,
1312, 1302, 1288, 1278, 1241, 1235, 1196, 1194, 1179, 1123, 1003, 971,
965, 959, 949, 913, 887, 866, 865, 864, 863, 862, 797, 795, 783, 775,
765, 751, 743, 742, 740, 737, 725, 722, 707, 691, 683, 662, 640, 624,
614, 607, 599, 412, 411, 410, 407, and 406 were found to have no
references to dates or times, and hence no millennium issues.

RFCs 712, 697, 633, 630, 622, 610, 593, 592, 589, 573, 571, 570, 553,
551, 549, 543, 535, 532, 525, 520, 514, 506, 505, 504, 501, 499, 493,
490, 487, 486, 485, 480, 479, 478, 477, 472, 468, 467, 463, 454, 451,
448, 446, 438, 437, 436, 430, 429, 418, 414, and 409 were not
available for review.

RFCS below 400 were considered too obsolete to even consider.



12. Network & Transport Layer

12.1 Summary

The RFC's which were categorized into this group were the Internet
Protocol (IP) versions four and six, the Transmission Control Protocol
(TCP), the User Datagram Protocol (UDP), the Point-to-Point Protocol
(PPP) and its extensions, Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP),
the Address Resolution Protocol (ARP) and Remote Procedure Call (RPC)
protocol.  A variety of less known protocols were also examined.

After careful review of the nearly 400 RFC's in this catagory, no 
millennium or year 2000 problems were found.

12.2 Specifics

RFC 2125 on the PPP Bandwidth Allocation Protocol (BAP) in section 5.3
discusses the use if mandatory timers, but gives no mention as to how
they are implemented.

RFC 2114 on a Data Link Switching Client Access Protocol defines a 
retry timer of five seconds in Section 3.4.1.

RFC 2097 on the PPP NetBIOS Frame Control Protocol discuesses several
timer and timeouts in Section 2.1, none of which suffers from a year
2000 problem.

RFC 2075 on the IP Echo Host Service discusses timestamps and has no 
millennium issues.

RFC 2005 on the Applicability for Mobile IP discusses using timestamps
as a security measure to avoid replay attacks (Section 3.), but does
not quantify them.  There are no expected issues.

RFC 2002 on IP Mobility Support uses a 16-bit field for the lifetime
of a connection and notes the 18.2 hour limitation that this imposes.  
Section 5.6.1 on replay protection requires the use of 64-bit time 
fields, of a similar format to NTP packets.  

RFC 1981 on Path MTU Discovery for IPv6 discusses timestamps and their
potential use to purge stale information in section 5.3.  There is no
millennium issues in this use.

RFC 1963 on the PPP Serial Data Transport Protocol defines a flow 
expiration time in section 4.9 which has no year 2000 issues.

RFC 1833 on Binding Protocols for ONC RPC Version 2 defines a variable
in Section 2.2.1 called RPCBPROC_GETTIME which returns the local time
in seconds since 1/1/1970.  Since this value is not fields width 
dependent, it may or may not wrap around the 32-bit value depending on
the operating system parameters.

RFC 1762 on the PPP DECnet Phase IV Control Protocol discusses a number
of timers in Section 5 (General Considerations).  None of these timers
experience any millennium issues.  

RFC 1761 on Snoop Version 2 Packet Capture File Format discusses two 
32-bit timestamp values on Section 4 on Packet Record Formats.  The 
first of these may wrap in the year 2038, but should not effect anything
of any import.

RFC 1755 on ATM Signalling Support for IP Over ATM discusses timing 
issues in Section 3.4 on VC Teardown.  These limited timers have no 
year 2000 issues.

RFC 1692 on the Transport Multiplexing Protocol (TMux) defines a TTL in
Section 2.3 and a timer in Section 3.3.  Neither of these suffer from 
any millennium or year 2000 issues.

RFC 1661 on PPP defines three timers in Section 4.6, none of which have
any year 2000 issues.

RFC 1644 on T/TCP (TCP Extensions for Transactions) mentions RFC 1323
and the extended timers recommended in it.  

RFC 1575 defines an echo function for CNLP discusses in the narrative
the use of the Lifetime Field in Section 5.3.  There is nothing to 
suggest that there is any year 2000 issues.

RFC 1329 on Dual MAC FDDI Networks discusses ARP cache administration 
in Section 9.3 and 9.4 and various timers to expire entries. 

RFC 1256 on ICMP Router Discovery Messages talks about lifetime fields
in Section 2 and defines three router configuration variables in Section
4.1.  None of these have any millennium issues.

RFC 792 on ICMP discusses Timestamps and Timestamp Reply messages which
define a 32-bit timestamp which contains the number of milliseconds 
since midnight UT.  

RFC 791 on the Internet Protocol defines a packet type 68 which is an
Internet Timestamp, which defines a 32-bit field which contains the
number of milliseconds since midnght UT.

RFC 781 was defines the same option which is codified in RFC 791 as 
a packet type 68.

RFC's 2126, 2118, 2113, 2107, 2106, 2105, 2098, 2067, 2043, 2023, 
2019, 2018, 2009, 2004, 2003, 2001, 1994, 1993, 1990, 1989, 1979, 
1978, 1977, 1976, 1975, 1974, 1973, 1972, 1967, 1962, 1954, 1946, 
1937, 1936, 1934, 1933, 1932, 1931, 1926, 1924, 1919, 1918, 1917, 
1916, 1915, 1897, 1888, 1887, 1885, 1884, 1883, 1881, 1878, 1877, 
1868, 1860, 1859, 1853, 1841, 1832, 1831, 1809, 1795, 1791, 1770, 
1764, 1763, 1756, 1754, 1752, 1744, 1735, 1726, 1719, 1717, 1710, 
1707, 1705, 1698, 1693, 1688, 1687, 1686, 1683, 1682, 1681, 1680, 
1679, 1678, 1677, 1676, 1674, 1673, 1672, 1671, 1670, 1669, 1667, 
1663, 1662, 1638, 1634, 1631, 1629, 1624, 1622, 1621, 1620, 1619, 
1618, 1613, 1605, 1604, 1598, 1590, 1577, 1570, 1561, 1560, 1553, 
1552, 1551, 1549, 1548, 1547, 1538, 1526, 1518, 1498, 1490, 1483, 
1475, 1466, 1454, 1435, 1434, 1433, 1393, 1390, 1385, 1379, 1378, 
1377, 1376, 1375, 1374, 1365, 1363, 1362, 1356, 1347, 1337, 1335, 
1334, 1333, 1332, 1331, 1326, 1323, 1314, 1307, 1306, 1294, 1293, 
1277, 1263, 1240, 1237, 1236, 1234, 1226, 1223, 1220, 1219, 1210, 
1209, 1201, 1191, 1188, 1185, 1172, 1171, 1166, 1162, 1151, 1146, 
1145, 1144, 1141, 1139, 1134, 1132, 1122, 1110, 1106, 1103, 1088, 
1086, 1085, 1078, 1072, 1071, 1070, 1069, 1063, 1062, 1057, 1055, 
1051, 1050, 1046, 1045, 1044, 1042, 1030, 1029, 1027, 1025, 1016, 
1008, 1007, 1006, 1002, 1001, 994, 986, 983, 982, 970, 964, 963, 962,
955, 948, 942, 941, 940, 936, 935, 932, 926, 925, 924, 922, 919, 917,
914, 905, 903, 896, 895, 894, 893, 892, 891, 889, 879, 877, 874, 872,
871, 848, 829, 826, 824, 815, 814, 813, 801, 793, 789, 787, 777, 768,
761, 760, 759, 730, 704, 696, 695, 692, 690, 689, 687, 685, 680, 675,
674, 660, 632, 626, 613, 611 were reviewed but were found to have no 
millennium references.

RFC's 594, 591, 576, 550, 548, 528, 521, 489, 488, 473, 460, 459, 450, 
449, 445, 442, 434, 426, 417, 398, 395, 394, 359, 357, 348, 347, 346, 
343, 312, 301, 300, 271, 241, 210, 203, 202, 197, 190, 178, 176, 175, 
166, 165, 161, 151, 150, 146, 145, 143, 142, 128, 127, 123, 122, 93, 
91, 80, 79, 70, 67, 65, 62, 60, 59, 56, 55, 54, 53, 41, 38, 33, 23, 
22, 20, 19, 17, 12 were deemed too old to be considered for millennium 
investigation.




13. Electronic Mail

13.1 Summary

The RFC's which were categorized into this group were the Simple Mail
Transfer Protocol (SMTP), Internet Mail Access Protocol (IMAP), Post
Office Protocol (POP), Multipurpose Internet Mail Exchange (MIME), and
X.400 to SMTP interaction.

After reviewing all mail-related RFCs, it was discovered that while
some obsolete standards required two-digit years, all currently used
standards require four-digit years and are thus not prone to typical
Year 2000 problems.
 

13.2 Specifics

RFCs 821 and 822, the main basis for SMTP mail exchange and message
format, originally required two-digit years. However, both of these
RFCs were later modified by RFC 1123 in 1989, which strongly
recommended 4-digit years.  Although there might be a few very old
SMTP systems using two-digit years, it is believed that almost all
mail sent over the Internet today uses four-digit years. Mail that
contains two-digit years in its SMTP headers will not "fail", but
might be mis-sorted in message stores and mail user agents. This
problem is avoided entirely by taking the RFC 1123 change as a
requirement, rather than merely as a recommendation.
 
IMAP versions 1, 2, and 3 used two-digit years, but IMAP version 4
(defined in RFCs 1730 and 1732 in 1994) requires four-digit
years. There are still a few IMAP 2 servers and clients in use on the
Internet today, but IMAP version 4 has already taken over almost all of
the IMAP market. Mail stored on an IMAP server or client with
two-digit years will not "fail", but could possibly be mis-sorted or
prematurely expired.
 
RFC 1153 describes a format for digests of mailing lists, and uses
two-digit dates. This format is not widely used. The use of two-digit
dates could possibly cause missorting of stored messages.
 
RFC 1327, which describes mapping between X.400 mail and SMTP mail,
uses the UTCTime format.
 
RFC 1422 describes the structure of certificates that were used in PEM
(and are expected to be used in many other mail and non-mail
services). Those certificates use dates in UTCTime format. Poorly
written software might prematurely expire or validate a certificate
based on comparisons of the date with the current date, although no
current software is known to do this.


14. Network Time Protocols

14.1 Summary

The RFC's which were categorized into this group were the Network Time
Protocol (NTP), and the Time Protocol.

NTP has been certified year 2000 compliant, while the Time Protocol
will "roll over" at Thu Feb 07 00:54:54 2036 GMT.  Since NTP is the
current defacto standard for network time this does not seem to be an
issue.


14.2 Specifics

There is no reference anywhere in the NTP specification or 
implementation to any reference epoch other than 1 January 1900. In 
short, NTP doesn't know anything about the millennium.

>From the Time Protocol RFC (868):

    S: Send the time as a 32 bit binary number.

    ...
 
    The time is the number of seconds since 00:00 (midnight) 1 January 
    1900 GMT, such that the time 1 is 12:00:01 am on 1 January 1900
    GMT; this base will serve until the year 2036.



15. Name Services

15.1 Summary

The RFC's which were categorized into this group were the Domain Name
System (DNS), it's advanced add on features (Incremental Zone
Transfer, etc.).

There have been no year 2000 relayed problems found with the DNS
protocols, or common implementations of them.

15.2 Specifics

One is a common practice of writing serial numbers in zone files as if
they represent a date, and using only two digits of the year.  That
practice cannot survive into the year 2000.  This is not a protocol
problem, the serial number is simply an integer, and any value is OK,
provided it always increases (see rfc1982 for a definition of what
that means).  In any case, a change from 97abcd (or similar) to 00abcd
would be a decrease and so is not permitted.  Zone file maintainers
have two choices, one easy (though irrational) one would be to
continue from 99 to 100 and so on.  The other, is simply to switch, at
any time between now and when the serial number first needs updating
after the year 2000, to use 4 digits to represent the year instead of
2.  As long as there are no more than 6 digits in the "abcd" part, and
this is done sometime before the year 2100, this is always an
increase, and therefore always safe.  Should any zone files be of the
form yyabcdefg (with 7 digits after a 2-digit year) then the
procedures of section 7 of rfc2182 should be adopted to convert the
serial number to some other value.

The other item of note is related to timestamps in DNS security.
Those are represented as 32 bit counts of seconds, based in 1970, and
hence have no year 2000 problems.  however, they do obviously have a
natural end of life, and sometime before that time is reached, the
definitions of those fields need to be corrected, perhaps to allow
them to represent the number of seconds elapsed since the base, modulo
2^32, which is likely to be adequate for the purposes of DNS security
(signatures and keys are unlikely to need to be valid for more than 70
years).  In any case, more work is needed in this area in the not too
far distant future.


16 Network Management

16.1 Summary

The RFC's which were categorized into this group were the Simple
Network Management Protocol (SNMP), a large number of Management
Information Bases (MIBs) and the Common Management Information
Protocol (CMIP).

Although a few discrepancies have been found and outlined below, none
of them should have an impact on interoperability.

16.2 Specifics

16.2.1 Use of GeneralizedTime in CMOT as defined in RFCs 1095 and 1189.
 
The standards for CMIP over TCP/IP specify an unusual use for the
GeneralizedTime type.  (GeneralizedTime has a four-digit
representation of the year.)
 
If the system generating the PDU does not have the current time, yet
does have the time since last boot, then GeneralizedTime can be used
to encode this information.  The time since last boot will be added to
the base time "0001 Jan 1 00:00:00.00" using the Gregorian calendar
algorithm.
 
This is really a "Year 0" problem rather than a Year 2000 problem, and
in any case, CMOT is not currently deployed.


16.2.2 UTCTime in SNMP Definitions
 
UTCTime is an ASN.1 type that includes a two-digit representation of
the year.  There are several options for UTCTime in ASN.1, that vary
in precision and in local versus GMT, but these options all have
two-digit years.  The standards for SNMP definitions specify one
particular format:
 
       YYMMDDHHMMZ
 
The first usage of UTCTime in the standards for SNMP definitions goes
all the way back to RFC 1303.  It has persisted unchanged up through
the current specifications in RFC 1902.  The role of UTCTime in SNMP
definitions is to record the history of an SNMP MIB module in the
module itself, via two ASN.1 macros:
 
    o   LAST-UPDATED
    o   REVISION
 
Applications that store and use MIB modules need to be smart about
interpreting these UTCTimes, but with one exception, the times do not
actually flow in the network.  This one exception is the
appnNodeMibVersion object in the APPN MIB (currently
draft-ietf-snanau- appnmib-04.txt, but soon to be published as an
RFC), which returns the value of LAST-UPDATED from the version of the
APPN MIB that an agent has implemented.  An application that can
correctly interpret UTCTimes, by prepending a "19" or a "20" as
appropriate, in the MIB modules it has stored locally will be able to
interpret the value of this object correctly as well.
 
16.2.3  Objects in the Printer MIB (RFC 1559)

There are two objects in the Printer MIB that allow use of a date as
an object value with no explicit guidance for formatting the value.
The objects are prtInterpreterLangVersion and prtInterpreterVersion.
Both are defined with a syntax of OCTET STRING.  The descriptions for
the objects allow the object value to contain a date, version code or
other product specific information to identify the interpreter or
language.  The descriptions do not include an explicit statement
recommending use of a four-digit year when a date is used as the
object value.
 
16.2.4  Dates in Mobile Network Tracing Records (RFC 2041)
 
The RFC specifies trace headers and footers with date fields that are
character arrays of size 32.  While 32 characters certainly provide
enough room for a four-digit year, there's no explicit statement that
these years must be represented with four digits.



17 Network News

17.1 Summary

The RFC's which were categorized into this group were related to the
Network News Protocol (NNTP).

There does exist a problem in both NNTP, RFC 977, and the Usenet News
Message Format, RFC 10336.  They both specify two-digit year format.
A working group has been formed to update the network news protocols
in general, and addressing this problem is on their list of work
items.

17.2 Specifics

The NNTP transfer protocols defined in RFC 977.  Sections 3.7.1, the
definition of the NEWGROUPS command, and 3.8.1, the NEWNEWS command,
that dates must be specified in YYMMDD format.

The format for USENET news messages is defined in RFC 1036.  The Date
line is defined in section 2.1.2 and it is specified in RFC-822
format.  It specifically disallows the standard UNIX ctime(3) format,
which would allow for four digit years.  Section 2.2.4 on Expires also
mandates the same two-digit year format.


18. Real Time Services

18.1 Summary

The RFC's which were categorized into this group were related to IP
Multicast, RTP, and Internet Stream Protocol.  A Year 2000 problem
does occur in the Simple Network Paging Protocol, versions 2 & 3.
Both define a HOLDuntil option which uses a YYMMDDHHMMSS+/-GMT field.
Version 3 also defines a MSTAtus command, which is required to store,
dates and times as YYMMDDHHMMSS+/-GMT.


18.2 Specifics

RFC 2102 discusses Multicast support for NIMROD and has no mention of
dates or time.  RFC 2090 on TFTP Multicast options is also free from
any date/time references.

RFC 2038 on RTP MPEG formats has three references to time: a
Presentation Time Stamp (PTS), a Decoding Time Stamp (DTS), and a
System Clock (SC) reference time.  Each RTP packet contains a
timestamp derived from the sender 90 kHz clock reference.  Each of the
header fields are defined in section 2.1, 3, and 3.3 are 32 bit
fields.  No mention is made of a "zero" start time, so it is presumed
that this format will be valid until at least 2038.

Similarly RFC 2035 on the RTP JPEG format defines the same timestamp
in section 3.  RFC 2032 on RTP H.261 video streams uses a calculated
time based on the original frame so once again there is no millennium
issue.  RFC 2029 on the RTP format for Sun's CellB video encoding
mentions the RTP timestamp in section 2.1.

RFC 2022 defines support for multicast over UNI 3.0/3.1 based ATM
networks.  Section 5.  defines a timeout value for connections between
one and twenty minutes.  Section 5.1.1 discusses several timers that
are bound between five and ten seconds, while 5.1.3 requires an
inactivity timer, which should also run between one and twenty
minutes.  Sections 5.1.5, 5.1.5.1, 5.1.5.2, 5.2.2, 5.4, 5.4.1, 5.4.2,
5.4.3, 6.1.3 and Appendix E all defines numerous timers, none of which
have any millennium issues.

RFC 1890 on RTP profiles for audio and video conferences discusses a
sampling frequency which has no issues.  RFC 1889 on RTP discusses
time formats in section 4, as the same 64 bit unsigned integer format
that NTP uses.  There is a "period" problem, which will occur in the
year 2106.  Section 5.1 is a more formalized discussion of the
timestamp properties, while Section 6.3.1 discusses a variety of
different timers all using the 64 bit field format, or a compressed
32-bit version of the inner octet of bytes.  Section 8.2 discusses
loop detection and how the various timers are used to determine if
looping occurs.

RFC 1861 on Version 3 of the Simple Network Paging Protocol does have
a Year 2000 problem.  The protocol defines a HOLDuntil command in
section 4.5.6 and a MSTAtus command in section 4.6.10, both of which
require dates/times to be stored as YYMMDDHHMMSS+/-GMT.  Clearly this
format will be invalid after the end of 1999.

RFC 1821 has no date/time references.  RFC 1819 on Version 2 of the
Internet Stream Protocol defines a HELLO message format in section
6.1.2, which does contain a timer which is updated every millisecond.
No year 2000 problems exist with this protocol.

RFC 1645 on Version 2 of the Simple Network Paging Protocol contains
the same HOLDuntil field problem as version 3.  The definition is
contained section 4.4.6.

RFC 1458 on the Requirements of Multicast Protocols discusses a
retransmission timer in section 4.23. and a general discussion of
timer expiration in section 5, neither of which have any millennium
concerns.  RFC 1301 on the Multicast Transport Protocol defines a
heartbeat interval of time in section 2.1, as well as retention and
windows.  Formal definitions for each are contained in sections 2.2.7,
2.2.8 and 2.2.9.  The heartbeat is a 32 bit unsigned field, while the
Window and Retention are both 16 bit unsigned fields.  Section 3.4.2
gives examples values for these fields, which indicate no millennium
issues.

RFC 1193 on Client Requirements for Real Time Services talks about
time in section 4.4, but there are no Year 2000 issues.  RFC 1190 have
been obsoleted by RFC 1819, but the hello timer issues are similar.

RFCs 1789, 1768, 1703, 1614, 1569, 1568, 1546, 1469, 1453, 1313, 1257,
1197, 1112, 1054, 988, 966, 947, 809, 804, 803, 798, 769, 741, 511,
508, 420, 408 and 251 contain no date or time references.


19. Routing

19.1 Summary

The RFC's which were categorized into this group were Routing
Information Protocol (RIP), the Open Shortest Path First (OSPF)
protocol, Classless InterDomain Routing (CIDR),the Border Gateway
Protocol (BGP), and the InterDomain Routing Protocol (IDRP).

After careful examination both BGP and RIP have been found Year 2000
compliant.

There is a small Year 2000 issue in RFC 1786 on the Representation of
IP Routing Policies in the ripe-81++ Routing Registry.  In Appendices
C the "changed" object parameter defines a format of <email-address>
YYMMDD, and similarly in Appendix D "withdrawn" object identifier has
he format of YYMMDD.  Since these are only identifiers there should be
little operational impact.  Some application software may need to be
modified.

IDPR suffers from the classic Year 2038 problem, by having a timestamp
counter which rolls over at that time.


19.2 Specifics

RFC 2091 on Extensions to RIP to Support Demand Circuits defines three
required and one optional timers in section 6.  The Database Timer
(6.1), the Hold down Timer (6.2), the Retransmission Time (6.3) and
the Over-Subscription Timer (6.4) are all counters, which have no
millennium, issues.  RFC 2081 on the applicability of RIPng discusses
deletion of routes for a variety of issues, one of which is the
garbage- collection timer exceeds 120 seconds.  There are no Year 2000
issues.  RFC 2080 on RIPng for IPv6, discusses various times in
section 2.6, none of which have any millennium problems.

RFC 1987 on Ipsilon's General Switch Management protocol there is a
Duration field defined in section 4, which has no relevant problems.
Section 8.2 defines the procedure for dealing with timers.  RFC 1953
on Ipsilon's Flow Management Specification for IPv4 defines the same
procedure in section 3.2, as well as a lifetime field in the Redirect
Message (Section 4.1).  There are no millennium issues in either case.

There is a small Year 2000 issue in RFC 1786 on the Representation of
IP Routing Policies in the ripe-81++ Routing Registry.  In Appendices
C the "changed" object parameter defines a format of <email-address>
YYMMDD, and similarly in Appendix D "withdrawn" object identifier has
he format of YYMMDD.  Since these are only identifiers there should be
little operational impact.  Some application software may need to be
modified.

RFC 1771 defines the Border Gateway Protocol (BGP).  BGP does not have
knowledge of absolute time, only relative time.  There are five timers
defined: Hold Timer, ConnectRetry Timer, KeepAlive Timer,
MinRoueAdvertisementInterval and MinASOriginationInterval.  There are
no known issues regarding BGP and the millennium.

In RFC 1584, which defines Multicast Extensions to OSPF, three timers
are defined in section 8.2: IGMPPollingInterval, IGMPTimeout, and IGMP
polling timer.  Section 8.4 defines an age parameter for the local
groups database and section 9.3 outlines how to implement that age
parameter.  It is not expected that any connections lifetime will be
long enough to cause any issues with these timers.

RFC 1583, OSPF, there are two types of timers defined in section 4.4,
single-shot timers and interval timers.  There are a number of timers
defined in Section 9 including: HelloInterval, RouterDeadInterval,
InfTransDelay, Hello Timer, Wait Timer and RxmtInterval.  Section 10
also defines the Inactivity Timer.  No millennium problem exists for
any of these timers.

RFC 1582 is an earlier version of RFC 2091.  Section 7 documents the
same timers as noted above, with the same lack of a millennium issue.

RFC 1504 on Appletalk Update-Based Routing Protocol defines a
10-second period in Section 3, and hence has no relevant issues.

RFC 1479 which specifies IDPR Version 1, defines a timestamp field in
section 1.5.1, which is a 32 bit unsigned integer number of seconds
since January 1, 1970.  The authors recognize the problem of timestamp
exhaustion in 2038, but feel that the protocol will not be in use for
that period.  Sections 1.7, 2.1, and 4.3.1 also discuss the timestamp
field.  RFC 1478 on the IDPR Architecture, also discusses the same
timestamp field in section 3.3.4.  RFC 1477 again refers to the IDPR
timestamp in section 4.2.  Thus IDPR has no Year 2000 issue, but does
have a period problem in the year 2038.

RFC 1075 on Distance Vector Multicast Routing Protocol devotes section
7 to time values.  None of the timers have any millennium issues.  RFC
1074, on the NFSNET backbone SPF IGP defines several hardcoded timers
values in section 5.

RFC 1058 on RIP discusses the 30-second timers in section 3.3.  There is no millennium 
issues related to RIP.  

RFC 995 on the Requirements for Internet Gateways has extensive
discussions of timers in section 7.1 and throughout A.1 and A.2.  None
of these timers suffer from the millennium problem.

RFC 911 on EGP on Berkeley Unix recommend timer values of 30 and 120 seconds.

RFC 904 which defines the Exterior Gateway Protocol (EGP).  There are
a number of timers discussed in sections 4.1.1 and 4.1.4.  None of
these timers suffer from any relevant problems.

RFCs 2103, 2092, 2073, 2072, 2042, 2008, 1998, 1997, 1992, 1966, 1955,
1940, 1930, 1925, 1923, 1863, 1817, 1812, 1793, 1787, 1774, 1773,
1772, 1765, 1753, 1745, 1723, 1722, 1721, 1716, 1702, 1701, 1668,
1656, 1655, 1654, 1587, 1586, 1585, 1581, 1520, 1519, 1517, 1482,
1476, 1439, 1403, 1397, 1388, 1387, 1383, 1380, 1371, 1370, 1364,
1338, 1322, 1268, 1267, 1266, 1265, 1264, 1254, 1246, 1245, 1222,
1195, 1164, 1163, 1142, 1136, 1133, 1126, 1125, 1124,1104, 1102, 1092,
1009, 985, 981, 975, 950, 898, 890, 888, 875, and 823 contain no date
or time references.

20. Security

20.1 Summary

The RFC's which were categorized into this group were kerberos
authentication protocol, Remote Authentication Dial In User Service
(RADIUS), One Time Password System (OTP), Privacy Enhanced Mail (PEM),
security extensions to a variety of protocols including (but not
limited to) RIPv2, HTTP, MIME, PPP, IP, Telnet and FTP.  Encryption
and authentication algorithms are also examined.


RFC 1507 on Distributed Authentication Security Services (DASS)
discusses time and secure time in an expository manner in Sections
1.2.2, 1.4.4 and 2.1.  Section 3.6 defines absolute time as an UTC
time with a precision of 1 second, and Section 4.1 discusses ANS.1
encoding of time values.  Because of the imprecision of the UTC time
definition there could be problems with this protocol.

RFCs 1421-1424 specifies that PEM uses UTC time formats which could
have a Millennium issue since the year specification only provides the
last two digits of the year.

20.2 Specifics

RFC 2082 on RIP-2 MD5 Authentication requires storage of security keys
for a specified lifetime in sections 4.1 and 4.2.  There are no
millennium issues in this protocol.

RFC 2078 on the GSSAPI Version 2 defines numerous calls that use
timers for inputs and outputs.  Sections 2.1.1, 2.1.3, 2.1.4, 2.1.5,
2.2.1, 2.2.2, 2.2.5 and 2.2.6 all use the lifetime_rec field, which is
defined as an integer counter in seconds.  There should be no relevant
problems with this protocol.

RFC 2069 on Digest Authentication for HTTP, defines a 'date' and a
'last-modified' field in Section 2.1.2.  Both are required to be RFC
1123 formats which is not subject to millennium issues.  Section 3.2
discusses dates and times in the context of thwarting replay attacks,
but have no relevant issues.

RFC 2065 on DNS Security extensions first discusses time in section
2.3.3.  The SIG RDATA format is defined in Section 4.1 discusses "time
signed" field and defines it to be a 32 bit unsigned integer number of
seconds since January 1, 1970.  There will be a period problem in 2038
because of rollover.  Section 4.5 on the file representations of SIG
RRs specifies the time field is expressed as YYYYMMDDHHMMSS which is
clearly Year 2000 compliant.

RFC 2059 on RADIUS account formats defines a "time" attribute, which
is optional which is a 32 bit unsigned integer number of seconds since
January 1, 1970.  Likewise RFC 2058 on RADIUS also defines this
optional attribute in the same way.  There will be a potential period
problem that occurs on 2038.

RFC 2035 on the Simple Public Key GSSAPI Mechanism talks about secure
timestamps in the background and overview sections only in an
expository manner.

RFC 1969 on the PPP DES Encryption Protocol uses time as an example in
Section 4 when discussing how to encrypt the first packet of a stream.
It is suggested that the first 32 bits be used for the number of
seconds since January 1, 1970.  There could thus be a potential
operations problem in 2038.

RFC 1898 on the CyberCash Credit Card Protocol provides an example
message in Section 2.7 which uses a date field of the form
YYYYMMDDHHMM that is clearly Y2K compliant.

RFC 1510, which defines Kerberos Version 5, makes extensive use of
times in the security model.  There are discussions in the
Introduction, as well as Sections 1.2, and 3.1.3.  Kerberos uses ASN.1
definitions to abstract values, and hence defines a base definition
for KerberosTime which is a generalized time format in Section 5.2.
>From the text: "Example: The only valid format for UTC time 6 minutes,
27 seconds after 9 p.m. on 6 November 1985 is 19851106210627Z."  A
side note is that the MIT reference implementation of the Kerberos, by
default set the expiration of tickets to December 31, 1999.  This is
not protocol related but could have some operational impacts.

RFC 1509 on GSSAPI C-bindings makes a single reference that all
counters are in seconds and assigned as 32 bit unsigned integers.
Hence GSSAPI mechanisms may have problems in 2038.

RFC 1507 on Distributed Authentication Security Services (DASS)
discusses time and secure time in an expository manner in Sections
1.2.2, 1.4.4 and 2.1.  Section 3.6 defines absolute time as an UTC
time with a precision of 1 second, and Section 4.1 discusses ANS.1
encoding of time values.  Because of the imprecision of the UTC time
definition there could be problems with this protocol.

RFC 1424 on PEM Part IV defines a self-signed certificate request in
Section 3.1.  The validity period start and end times are both
suggested to be January 1, 1970.  RFC 1422 on PEM Part II defines the
validity period for a certificate in Section 3.3.6.  It is recommended
that UTC Time formats are used, and notes the lack of a century so
that comparisons between different centuries must be done with care.
No suggestions on how to do this are included.  Sections 3.5.2 also
discusses validity period in PEM CRLs.  RFC 1421 on PEM Part I
discusses validity periods in an expository way.  PEM as a whole could
have problems after December 31, 1999 based on its use of UTC Time.

RFCs 1113, 1114, and 1115 specify the original version of PEM and have
been obsoleted bye 1421, 1422, 1423, & 1424.


RFCs 2104, 2085, 2084, 2057, 2040, 2015, 1984, 1968, 1964, 1961, 1949,
1948, 1938, 1929, 1928, 1858, 1852, 1851, 1829, 1828, 1827, 1826,
1825, 1824, 1760, 1751, 1750, 1704, 1675, 1579, 1535, 1511, 1492,
1457, 1455, 1423, 1416, 1412, 1411, 1409, 1408, 1321, 1320, 1319,
1281, 1244, 1186, 1170, 1156, 1108, 1004, 972, 931, 927, 912, and 644
contain no date or time references.


21. Virtual Terminal

21.1 Summary

The RFC's which were categorized into this group were Telnet and its
many extensions, as well as the Secure SHell (SSH) protocol.  The X
window system was not considered since it is not an IETF protocol.
Official acknowledgement by the trustee's of the X window system was
given that they will examine the protocol.

Unencrypted Telnet and TN3270 have both been found to be Year 2000
Compliant.  The SSH protocols are also Year 2000 compliant.

21.2 Specifics

RFC 1013 on the X Windows version 11 alpha protocol defines are 32 bit 
unsigned integer timestamp in Section 4.  

RFCs 2066, 1647, 1576, 1572, 1571, 1372, 1282, 1258, 1221, 1205, 1184,
1143, 1116, 1097, 1096, 1091, 1080, 1079, 1073, 1053, 1043, 1041,
1005, 946, 933, 930, 929, 907, 885, 884, 878, 861, 860, 859, 858, 857,
856, 855, 854, 851, 818, 802, 782, 779, 764, 749, 748, 747, 746, 736,
735, 734, 732, 731, 729, 728, 727, 726, 721, 719, 718, 701, 698, 658,
657, 656, 655, 654, 653, 652, 651, 647, 636, 431, 399, 393, 386, 365,
352, 340, 339, 328, 311, 297, 231, and 215 contain no date or time
references.


RFCs 703, 702, 688, 679, 669, 659, 600, 596, 595, 587, 563, 562, 560,
559, 513, 495, 470, 466, 461, 447, 435, 377, 364, 318, 296, 216, 206,
205, 177, 158, 139, 137, 110, 97 were unavailable.


22.  Other

22.1 Summary

This grouping was a hodge-podge of informational RFCs, April Fool's
Jokes, IANA lists, and experimental RFCs.  None were found to have any
millennium issues.


22.2 Specifics

RFCs 2123, 2036, 2014, 2000, 1999, 1958, 1935, 1900, 1879, 1855, 1822,
1814, 1810, 1799, 1776, 1718, 1715, 1700, 1699, 1640, 1627, 1610,
1607, 1601, 1600, 1599, 1594, 1580, 1578, 1574, 1550, 1540, 1539,
1527, 1499, 1463, 1462, 1438, 1410, 1402, 1401, 1391, 1367, 1366,
1360, 1359, 1358, 1349, 1340, 1336, 1325, 1324, 1300, 1291, 1287,
1261, 1250, 1249, 1206, 1200, 1199, 1177, 1175, 1174, 1152, 1149,
1140, 1135, 1127, 1118, 1111, 1100, 1099, 1077, 1060, 1039, 1020,
1019, 999, 997, 992, 990, 980, 960, 945, 944, 943, 939, 909, 902, 900,
899, 873, 869, 846, 845, 844, 843, 842, 840, 839, 838, 837, 836, 835,
834, 833, 832, 831, 820, 817, 800, 776, 774, 770, 766, 762, 758, 755,
750, 745, 717, 637, 603, 602, 590, 581, 578, 529, 527, 526, 523, 519,
518, 496, 491, 432, 404, 403, 401, 372, 363, 356, 345, 330, 329, 327,
317, 316, 313, 295, 282, 263, 242, 239, 234, 232, 225, 223, 213, 209,
204, 198, 195, 173, 170, 169, 167, 154, 149, 148, 147, 140, 138, 132,
131, 130, 129, 126, 121, 112, 109, 107, 100, 95, 90, 68, 64, 57, 52,
51, 46, 43, 37, 27, 25, 21, 15, 10, and 9 were examined and none were
found to have any date or time references, let alone millennium or Year
2000 issues.


23. Security Considerations

Although this document does consider the implications of various
security protocols, there is no need for additional security
considerations.  The effect of a potential year 2000 problem may cause
some security problems, but those problems are more of specific
applications rather than protocol deficiencies introduced in this
document.


24. References

Because of the exhaustive nature of this investigation, the reader is
referred to the list of published RFC's available from the IETF
Secretariat or the RFC Editor, rather than republishing them here.


25. Editors Address

Philip J. Nesser II
Nesser & Nesser Consulting
13501 100th Ave N.E.
Suite 5202
Kirkland, WA 98052
(425)481-4303 (voice)
(425)482-9721 (fax)
pjnesser@nesser.com
pjnesser@martigny.ai.mit.edu

Appendix A:  List of RFC's for each Area

The following list contains the RFC's grouped by area that were
searched for year 2000 problems.

Each line contains three fields are separated by '::'.  The first
filed is the RFC number, the second field is the type of RFC (S =
Standard, DS = Draft Standard, PS = Proposed Standard, E =
Experimental, H = Historical, I = Informational, BC = Best Current
Practice, '' = No Type), and the third field is the Title.

A.1 Autoconfiguration

1971:: PS::  IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration
1970:: PS::  Neighbor Discovery for IP Version 6 (IPv6) 
1542:: PS::  Clarifications and Extensions for the Bootstrap Protocol
1541:: PS::  Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol
1534:: PS::  Interoperation Between DHCP and BOOTP
1533:: PS::  DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor Extensions
1532:: PS::  Clarifications and Extensions for the Bootstrap Protocol
1531:: PS::  Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol 
1497:: DS::  BOOTP Vendor Information Extensions
1395:: DS::  BOOTP Vendor Information Extensions
1084:: DS::  BOOTP vendor information extensions
1048:: DS::  BOOTP vendor information extensions
951::  DS::  Bootstrap Protocol
906::    ::  Bootstrap loading using TFTP

A.2 Directory Services

2120:: E ::  Managing the X.500 Root Naming Context
2079:: PS::  Definition of X.500 Attribute Types and an Object Class 
             to Hold Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs)
1943::  I::  Building an X.500 Directory Service in the US 
1914:: PS::  How to interact with a Whois++ mesh
1913:: PS::  Architecture of the Whois++ Index Service
1838::  E::  Use of the X.500 Directory to support mapping between 
             X.400 and RFC 822 Addresses
1837::  E::  Representing Tables and Subtrees in the X.500 Directory
1836::  E::  Representing the O/R Address hierarchy in the X.500 
             Directory Information Tree
1835:: PS::  Architecture of the WHOIS++ service
1834::  I::  Whois and Network Information Lookup Service Whois++
1781:: PS::  Using the OSI Directory to Achieve User Friendly Naming
1714::  I::  Referral Whois Protocol (RWhois)
1684::  I::  Introduction to White Pages services based on X.500
1637::  E::  DNS NSAP Resource Records
1632::  I::  A Revised Catalog of Available X.500 Implementations
1617::  I::  Naming and Structuring Guidelines for X.500 Directory Pilots
1609::  E::  Charting Networks in the X.500 Directory
1608::  E::  Representing IP Information in the X.500 Directory
1588::  I::  WHITE PAGES MEETING REPORT
1562::  I::  Naming Guidelines for the AARNet X.500 Directory Service
1491::  I::  A Survey of Advanced Usages of X.500
1488:: PS::  The X.500 String Representation of Standard Attribute 
             Syntaxes
1487:: PS::  X.500 Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
1485:: PS::  A String Representation of Distinguished Names
1484::  E::  Using the OSI Directory to achieve User Friendly Naming
1430::  I::  A Strategic Plan for Deploying an Internet X.500 
             Directory Service
1400::  I::  Transition and Modernization of the Internet Registration 
             Service
1384::  I::  Naming Guidelines for Directory Pilots
1355::  I::  Privacy and Accuracy Issues in Network Information 
             Center Databases
1330::  I::  Recommendations for the Phase I Deployment of OSI 
             Directory Services (X.500) and OSI Message Handling 
             Services (X.400) within the ESnet Community
1309::  I::  Technical Overview of Directory Services Using the 
             X.500 Protocol
1308::  I::  Executive Introduction to Directory Services Using the 
             X.500 Protocol
1292::  I::  A Catalog of Available X.500 Implementations 
1279::   ::  X.500 and Domains
1276:: PS::  Replication and Distributed Operations extensions to 
             provide an Internet Directory using X.500
1275::  I::  Replication Requirements to provide an Internet Directory 
             using X.500
1274:: PS::  The COSINE and Internet X.500 Schema
1255::  I::  A Naming Scheme for c=US
1218::   ::  A Naming Scheme for c=US
1202::  I::  Directory Assistance Service
1107::   ::  Plan for Internet directory services
 954:: DS::  NICNAME/WHOIS
 953::  H::  Hostname Server
 812::   ::  NICNAME/WHOIS
 756::   ::  NIC name server - a datagram-based information utility
 752::   ::  Universal host table
============ ==========================================================
Disk Sharing
1813::  I::  NFS Version 3 Protocol Specification
1094::  H::  NFS: Network File System Protocol specification
============ ==========================================================
Games and Chat
1459::  E::  Internet Relay Chat Protocol
======================================================================
Information Services & File Transfer
2122:: PS::  VEMMI URL Specification
2070:: PS::  Internationalization of the Hypertext Markup Language
2068:: PS::  Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1
2056:: PS::  Uniform Resource Locators for Z39.50
2055::  I::  WebNFS Server Specification
2054::  I::  WebNFS Client Specification
2044::  I::  "UTF-8, a transformation format of Unicode and ISO 10646"
2016::  E::  Uniform Resource Agents (URAs)
1986::  E::  Experiments with a Simple File Transfer Protocol for 
             Radio Links using Enhanced Trivial File Transfer 
             Protocol (ETFTP)
1980::  I::  A Proposed Extension to HTML: Client-Side Image Maps
1960:: PS::  A String Representation of LDAP Search Filters 
1959:: PS::  An LDAP URL Format
1945::  I::  Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.0
1942::  E::  HTML Tables
1874::  E::  SGML Media Types
1867::  E::  Form-based File Upload in HTML
1866:: PS::  Hypertext Markup Language - 2.0
1865::  I::  EDI Meets the Internet: Frequently Asked Questions 
             about Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) on the Internet
1862::  I::  "Report of the IAB Workshop on Internet Information 
              Infrastructure, October 12-14, 1994"
1843::  I::  HZ - A Data Format for Exchanging Files of Arbitrarily 
             Mixed Chinese and ASCII characters
1842::  I::  ASCII Printable Characters-Based Chinese Character 
             Encoding for Internet Messages
1823::  I::  The LDAP Application Program Interface
1815::  I::  Character Sets ISO-10646 and ISO-10646-J-1
1808:: PS::  Relative Uniform Resource Locators
1807::  I::  A Format for Bibliographic Records
1798:: PS::  Connection-less Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
1788::  E::  ICMP Domain Name Messages
1785::  I::  TFTP Option Negotiation Analysis
1784:: PS::  TFTP Timeout Interval and Transfer Size Options
1783:: PS::  TFTP Blocksize Option
1782:: PS::  TFTP Option Extension
1779:: DS::  A String Representation of Distinguished Names 
1778:: DS::  The String Representation of Standard Attribute Syntaxes 
1777:: DS::  Lightweight Directory Access Protocol 
1766:: PS::  Tags for the Identification of Languages
1738:: PS::  Uniform Resource Locators (URL)
1737::  I::  Functional Requirements for Uniform Resource Names
1736::  I::  Functional Requirements for Internet Resource Locators
1729::  I::  Using the Z39.50 Information Retrieval Protocol in the
             Internet Environment
1728::  I::  Resource Transponders
1727::  I::  A Vision of an Integrated Internet Information Service 
1639::  E::  FTP Operation Over Big Address Records (FOOBAR) 
1633::  I::  Integrated Services in the Internet Architecture 
1630::  I::  Universal Resource Identifiers in WWW
1625::  I::  WAIS over Z39.50-1988
1558::  I::  A String Representation of LDAP Search Filters 
1554::  I::  ISO-2022-JP-2: Multilingual Extension of ISO-2022-JP 
1545::  E::  FTP Operation Over Big Address Records (FOOBAR) 
1530::  I::  Principles of Operation for the TPC.INT Subdomain: 
             General Principles and Policy
1529::  I::  Principles of Operation for the TPC.INT Subdomain: 
             Remote Printing -- Administrative Policies
1528::  E::  Principles of Operation for the TPC.INT Subdomain: 
             Remote Printing -- Technical Procedures
1489::  I::  Registration of a Cyrillic Character Set
1486::  E::  An Experiment in Remote Printing
1440::  E::  SIFT/UFT: Sender-Initiated/Unsolicited File Transfer
1436::  I::  The Internet Gopher Protocol (a distributed document 
             search and retrieval protocol)
1415:: PS::  FTP-FTAM Gateway Specification 
1413:: PS::  Identification Protocol 
1350::  S::  THE TFTP PROTOCOL (REVISION 2)
1345::  I::  Character Mnemonics & Character Sets 
1312::  E::  Message Send Protocol 
1302::  I::  Building a Network Information Services Infrastructure 
1288:: DS::  The Finger User Information Protocol 
1278::  I::  A String Encoding of Presentation Address
1241::  E::  A Scheme for an Internet Encapsulation Protocol: Version 1
1235::  E::  The Coherent File Distribution Protocol
1196:: DS::  The Finger User Information Protocol 
1194:: DS::  The Finger User Information Protocol 
1179::  I::  Line Printer Daemon Protocol
1123::  S::  Requirements for Internet hosts - application and support 
1068::   ::  Background File Transfer Program BFTP
1037::  H::  NFILE - a file access protocol
1003::   ::  Issues in defining an equations representation standard
 998::  E::  NETBLT: A bulk data transfer protocol
 978::   ::  Voice File Interchange Protocol VFIP
 971::   ::  Survey of data representation standards
 969::   ::  NETBLT: A bulk data transfer protocol 
 965::   ::  Format for a graphical communication protocol
 959::  S::  File Transfer Protocol
 949::   ::  FTP unique-named store command
 916::  H::  Reliable Asynchronous Transfer Protocol RATP
 913::  H::  Simple File Transfer Protocol
 887::  E::  Resource Location Protocol
 866::  S::  Active users
 865::  S::  Quote of the Day Protocol
 864::  S::  Character Generator Protocol
 863::  S::  Discard Protocol
 862::  S::  Echo Protocol
 797::   ::  Format for Bitmap files
 795::   ::  Service mappings
 783:: DS::  TFTP Protocol revision 2
 775::   ::  Directory oriented FTP commands
 765::   ::  File Transfer Protocol specification 
 751::   ::  Survey of FTP mail and MLFL
 743::   ::  FTP extension: XRSQ/XRCP
 742:: PS::  NAME/FINGER Protocol
 740::  H::  NETRJS Protocol
 737::   ::  FTP extension: XSEN
 725::   ::  RJE protocol for a resource sharing network
 722::   ::  Thoughts on interactions in distributed services
 712::   ::  Distributed Capability Computing System DCCS
 707::   ::  High-level framework for network-based resource sharing
 697::   ::  CWD command of FTP
 691::   ::  One more try on the FTP
 683::   ::  FTPSRV - Tenex extension for paged files
 662::   ::  Performance improvement in ARPANET file transfers 
             from Multics
 640::   ::  Revised FTP reply codes
 633::   ::  IMP/TIP preventive maintenance schedule 
 630::   ::  FTP error code usage for more reliable mail service
 624::   ::  Comments on the File Transfer Protocol
 622::   ::  Scheduling IMP/TIP down time
 614::   ::  "Response to RFC 607: ""Comments on the File Transfer 
              Protocol"""
 610::   ::  Further datalanguage design concepts
 607::   ::  Comments on the File Transfer Protocol 
 599::   ::  Update on NETRJS
 593::   ::  Telnet and FTP implementation schedule change
 592::   ::  Some thoughts on system design to facilitate resource 
             sharing
 589::   ::  CCN NETRJS server messages to remote user
 573::   ::  Data and file transfer: Some measurement results
 571::   ::  Tenex FTP problem
 570::   ::  Experimental input mapping between NVT ASCII and UCSB 
             On Line System
 553::   ::  Draft design for a text/graphics protocol
 551::   ::  "[Letter from Feinroth re: NYU, ANL, and LBL entering 
             the net, and FTP protocol]"
 549::   ::  "Minutes of Network Graphics Group meeting, 15-17 
              July 1973"
 543::   ::  Network journal submission and delivery
 542::   ::  File Transfer Protocol
 535::   ::  Comments on File Access Protocol
 532::   ::  UCSD-CC Server-FTP facility
 525::   ::  MIT-MATHLAB meets UCSB-OLS -an example of resource sharing
 520::   ::  Memo to FTP group: Proposal for File Access Protocol
 514::   ::  Network make-work
 506::   ::  FTP command naming problem
 505::   ::  Two solutions to a file transfer access problem
 504::   ::  Distributed resources workshop announcement
 501::   ::  "Un-muddling ""free file transfer"""
 499::   ::  Harvard's network RJE
 493::   ::  "E.W., Jr Graphics Protocol"
 490::   ::  Surrogate RJS for UCLA-CCN 
 487::   ::  Free file transfer
 486::   ::  Data transfer revisited
 485::   ::  MIX and MIXAL at UCSB 
 480::   ::  Host-dependent FTP parameters
 479::   ::  Use of FTP by the NIC Journal
 478::   ::  FTP server-server interaction - II
 477::   ::  Remote Job Service at UCSB
 472::   ::  Illinois' reply to Maxwell's request for graphics 
             information NIC 14925
 468::   ::  FTP data compression 
 467::   ::  Proposed change to Host-Host Protocol:Resynchronization  
             of connection status
 463::   ::  FTP comments and response to RFC 430
 454::   ::  File Transfer Protocol - meeting announcement and a new 
             proposed document
 451::   ::  Tentative proposal for a Unified User Level Protocol
 448::   ::  Print files in FTP
 446::   ::  Proposal to consider a network program resource notebook
 438::   ::  FTP server-server interaction
 437::   ::  Data Reconfiguration Service at UCSB
 436::   ::  Announcement of RJS at UCSB
 430::   ::  Comments on File Transfer Protocol
 429::   ::  Character generator process
 418::   ::  Server file transfer under TSS/360 at NASA Ames
 414::   ::  File Transfer Protocol FTP status and further comments 
 412::   ::  User FTP documentation
 411::   ::  New MULTICS network software features
 410::   ::  Removal of the 30-second delay when hosts come up
 409::   ::  Tenex interface to UCSB's Simple-Minded File System
 407::  H::  Remote Job Entry Protocol
 406::   ::  Scheduled IMP software releases
 396::   ::  Network Graphics Working Group meeting - second iteration
 387::   ::  Some experiences in implementing Network Graphics 
             Protocol Level 0
 385::   ::  Comments on the File Transfer Protocol 
 382::   ::  Mathematical software on the ARPA Network
 374::   ::  IMP system announcement
 373::   ::  Arbitrary character sets
 368::   ::  "Comments on ""Proposed Remote Job Entry Protocol"""
 367::   ::  Network host status
 366::   ::  Network host status
 361::   ::  Deamon processes on host 106
 360::   ::  Proposed Remote Job Entry Protocol
 354::   ::  File Transfer Protocol
 351::   ::  Graphics information form for the ARPANET graphics
             resources notebook
 342::   ::  Network host status
 338::   ::  EBCDIC/ASCII mapping for network RJE
 336::   ::  Level 0 Graphic Input Protocol
 335::   ::  New interface - IMP/360
 332::   ::  Network host status
 325::   ::  Network Remote Job Entry program - NETRJS
 324::   ::  RJE Protocol meeting
 314::   ::  Network Graphics Working Group meeting
 310::   ::  Another look at Data and File Transfer Protocols
 309::   ::  Data and File Transfer workshop announcement
 307::   ::  Using network Remote Job Entry
 306::   ::  Network host status 
 299::   ::  Information management system
 298::   ::  Network host status
 294::   ::  "On the use of ""set data type"" transaction in 
             File Transfer Protocol"
 293::   ::  Network host status
 292::   ::  "E.W., Jr Graphics Protocol: Level 0 only"
 288::   ::  Network host status 
 287::   ::  Status of network hosts 
 286::   ::  Network library information system
 285::   ::  Network graphics
 283::   ::  NETRJT: Remote Job Service Protocol for TIPS 
 281::   ::  Suggested addition to File Transfer Protocol 
 268::   ::  Graphics facilities information
 267::   ::  Network host status 
 266::   ::  Network host status 
 265::   ::  "File Transfer Protocol"
 264::   ::  "Data Transfer Protocol"
 255::   ::  Status of network hosts
 252::   ::  Network host status
 250::   ::  Some thoughts on file transfer
 238::   ::  Comments on DTP and FTP proposals 
 217::   ::  "Specifications changes for OLS, RJE/RJOR, and SMFS" 
 199::   ::  Suggestions for a network data-tablet graphics protocol 
 192::   ::  Some factors which a Network Graphics Protocol must 
             consider
 191::   ::  Graphics implementation and conceptualization at 
             Augmentation Research Center
 189::   ::  Interim NETRJS specifications 
 184::   ::  Proposed graphic display modes
 183::   ::  EBCDIC codes and their mapping to ASCII
 181::   ::  Modifications to RFC 177
 174::   ::  UCLA - computer science graphics overview
 172::   ::  File Transfer Protocol 
 163::   ::  Data transfer protocols 
 141::   ::  Comments on RFC 114: A File Transfer Protocol
 134::   ::  Network Graphics meeting
 133::   ::  File transfer and recovery
 125::   ::  Response to RFC 86: Proposal for network standard format
             for a graphics data stream
 114::   ::  File Transfer Protocol
 105::   ::  Network specifications for Remote Job Entry and Remote 
             Job Output Retrieval at UCSB
  98::   ::  Logger Protocol proposal
  94::   ::  Some thoughts on network graphics
  88::   ::  NETRJS: A third level protocol for Remote JobEntry 
  86::   ::  Proposal for a network standard format for a data stream 
             to control graphics display
  83::   ::  Language-machine for data reconfiguration
 ========== ============================================================
 Internet & Network Layer
2126:: PS::  ISO Transport Service on top of TCP (ITOT)
2125:: PS::  The PPP Bandwidth Allocation Protocol (BAP) The PPP 
             Bandwidth Allocation Control Protocol (BACP)
2118::  I::  Microsoft Point-To-Point Compression (MPPC) Protocol
2114::  I::  Data Link Switching Client Access Protocol 
2113:: PS::  IP Router Alert Option
2107::  I::  Ascend Tunnel Management Protocol - ATMP
2106::  I::  Data Link Switching Remote Access Protocol 
2105::  I::  Cisco Systems' Tag Switching Architecture Overview
2098::  I::  Toshiba's Router Architecture Extensions for ATM:Overview
2097:: PS::  The PPP NetBIOS Frames Control Protocol (NBFCP)
2075::  I::  IP Echo Host Service
2067:: DS::  IP over HIPPI
2043:: PS::  The PPP SNA Control Protocol (SNACP)
2023:: PS::  IP Version 6 over PPP
2019:: PS::  Transmission of IPv6 Packets Over FDDI
2018:: PS::  TCP Selective Acknowledgment Options
2009::  E::  GPS-Based Addressing and Routing
2005:: PS::  Applicability Statement for IP Mobility Support
2004:: PS::  Minimal Encapsulation within IP
2003:: PS::  IP Encapsulation within IP
2002:: PS::  IP Mobility Support
2001:: PS::  "TCP Slow Start, Congestion Avoidance, Fast Retransmit, 
             and Fast Recovery Algorithms"
1994:: DS::  PPP Challenge Handshake Authentication Protocol (CHAP) 
1993::  I::  PPP Gandalf FZA Compression Protocol
1990:: DS::  The PPP Multilink Protocol (MP) 
1989:: DS::  PPP Link Quality Monitoring 
1981:: PS::  Path MTU Discovery for IP version 6
1979::  I::  PPP Deflate Protocol
1978::  I::  PPP Predictor Compression Protocol
1977::  I::  PPP BSD Compression Protocol
1976::  I::  PPP for Data Compression in Data Circuit-Terminating 
             Equipment (DCE)
1975::  I::  PPP Magnalink Variable Resource Compression
1974::  I::  PPP Stac LZS Compression Protocol
1973:: PS::  PPP in Frame Relay
1972:: PS::  A Method for the Transmission of IPv6 Packets over 
             Ethernet Networks
1967::  I::  PPP LZS-DCP Compression Protocol (LZS-DCP)
1963::  I::  PPP Serial Data Transport Protocol (SDTP)
1962:: PS::  The PPP Compression Control Protocol (CCP)
1954::  I::  Transmission of Flow Labelled IPv4 on ATM Data Links 
             Ipsilon Version 1.0
1946::  I::  Native ATM Support for ST2+
1937::  I::  Local/Remote Forwarding Decision in Switched Data 
             Link Subnetworks
1936::  I::  Implementing the Internet Checksum in Hardware
1934::  I::  Ascend's Multilink Protocol Plus (MP+)
1933:: PS::  Transition Mechanisms for IPv6 Hosts and Routers
1932::  I::  IP over ATM: A Framework Document
1931::  I::  Dynamic RARP Extensions and Administrative Support for
             Automatic Network Address Allocation
1926::  I::  An Experimental Encapsulation of IP Datagrams on 
             Top of ATM
1924::  I::  A Compact Representation of IPv6 Addresses
1919::  I::  Classical versus Transparent IP Proxies
1918:: BC::  Address Allocation for Private Internets
1917:: BC::  An Appeal to the Internet Community to Return Unused 
             IP Networks (Prefixes) to the IANA
1916::  I::  Enterprise Renumbering
1915:: BC::  Variance for The PPP Connection Control Protocol and 
             The PPP Encryption Control Protocol
1897::  E::  IPv6 Testing Address Allocation
1888::  E::  OSI NSAPs and IPv6
1887::  I::  An Architecture for IPv6 Unicast Address Allocation
1885:: PS::  Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMPv6) for the Internet Protocol Version 6 (IPv6)
1884:: PS::  IP Version 6 Addressing Architecture
1883:: PS::  "Internet Protocol, Version 6 (IPv6) Specification"
1881::  I::  IPv6 Address Allocation Management
1878::  I::  Variable Length Subnet Table For IPv4
1877::  I::  PPP Internet Protocol Control Protocol Extensions for 
             Name Server Addresses
1868::  E::  ARP Extension - UNARP
1860::  I::  Variable Length Subnet Table For IPv4
1859::  I::  ISO Transport Class 2 Non-use of Explicit Flow Control 
             over TCP RFC1006 extension
1853::  I::  IP in IP Tunneling
1841::  I::  PPP Network Control Protocol for LAN Extension
1833:: PS::  Binding Protocols for ONC RPC Version 2
1832:: PS::  XDR
1831:: PS::  RPC
1809::  I::  Using the Flow Label Field in IPv6
1795::  I::  "Data Link Switching
1791::  E::  TCP And UDP Over IPX Networks With Fixed Path MTU
1770::  I::  IPv4 Option for Sender Directed Multi-Destination Delivery
1764:: PS::  The PPP XNS IDP Control Protocol (XNSCP)
1763:: PS::  The PPP Banyan Vines Control Protocol (BVCP)
1762:: DS::  The PPP DECnet Phase IV Control Protocol (DNCP)
1761::  I::  Snoop Version 2 Packet Capture File Format
1756::  E::  REMOTE WRITE PROTOCOL - VERSION 1.0
1755:: PS::  ATM Signaling Support for IP over ATM
1754::  I::  IP over ATM Working Group's Recommendations for the 
             ATM Forum's Multiprotocol BOF Version 1
1752:: PS::  The Recommendation for the IP Next Generation Protocol
1744::  I::  Observations on the Management of the Internet Address 
             Space
1735::  E::  NBMA Address Resolution Protocol (NARP)
1726::  I::  Technical Criteria for Choosing IP
1719::  I::  A Direction for IPng
1717:: PS::  The PPP Multilink Protocol (MP)
1710::  I::  Simple Internet Protocol Plus White Paper
1707::  I::  CATNIP
1705::  I::  Six Virtual Inches to the Left
1698::  I::  Octet Sequences for Upper-Layer OSI to Support Basic 
             Communications Applications
1693::  E::  An Extension to TCP 
1692:: PS::  Transport Multiplexing Protocol (TMux)
1688::  I::  IPng Mobility Considerations
1687::  I::  A Large Corporate User's View of IPng
1686::  I::  IPng Requirements
1683::  I::  Multiprotocol Interoperability In IPng
1682::  I::  IPng BSD Host Implementation Analysis
1681::  I::  On Many Addresses per Host
1680::  I::  IPng Support for ATM Services
1679::  I::  HPN Working Group Input to the IPng Requirements 
             Solicitation
1678::  I::  IPng Requirements of Large Corporate Networks
1677::  I::  Tactical Radio Frequency Communication Requirements 
             for IPng
1676::  I::  INFN Requirements for an IPng
1674::  I::  A Cellular Industry View of IPng
1673::  I::  Electric Power Research Institute Comments on IPng
1672::  I::  Accounting Requirements for IPng
1671::  I::  IPng White Paper on Transition and Other Considerations
1670::  I::  Input to IPng Engineering Considerations
1669::  I::  Market Viability as a IPng Criteria
1667::  I::  Modeling and Simulation Requirements for IPng
1663:: PS::  PPP Reliable Transmission
1662::  S::  PPP in HDLC-like Framing
1661::  S::  The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP)
1644::  E::  T/TCP -- TCP Extensions for Transactions Functional 
             Specification
1638:: PS::  PPP Bridging Control Protocol (BCP)
1634::  I::  Novell IPX Over Various WAN Media (IPXWAN)
1631::  I::  The IP Network Address Translator (Nat)
1629:: DS::  Guidelines for OSI NSAP Allocation in the Internet
1626:: PS::  Default IP MTU for use over ATM AAL5
1624::  I::  Computation of the Internet Checksum via Incremental 
             Update
1622::  I::  Pip Header Processing
1621::  I::  Pip Near-term Architecture
1620::  I::  Internet Architecture Extensions for Shared Media
1619:: PS::  PPP over SONET/SDH
1618:: PS::  PPP over ISDN
1613::  I::  cisco Systems X.25 over TCP (XOT)
1605::  I::  SONET to Sonnet Translation
1604:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for Frame Relay Service
1598:: PS::  PPP in X.25
1590::  I::  Media Type Registration Procedure
1577:: PS::  Classical IP and ARP over ATM
1575:: DS::  An Echo Function for CLNP (ISO 8473)
1570:: PS::  PPP LCP Extensions
1561::  E::  Use of ISO CLNP in TUBA Environments
1560::  I::  The MultiProtocol Internet
1553:: PS::  Compressing IPX Headers Over WAN Media (CIPX)
1552:: PS::  The PPP Internetwork Packet Exchange Control 
             Protocol (IPXCP)
1551::  I::  Novell IPX Over Various WAN Media (IPXWAN)
1549:: DS::  PPP in HDLC Framing
1548:: DS::  The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP)
1547::  I::  Requirements for an Internet Standard 
             Point-to-Point Protocol
1538::  I::  Advanced SNA/IP 
1526::  I::  Assignment of System Identifiers for TUBA/CLNP Hosts
1518:: PS::  An Architecture for IP Address Allocation with CIDR
1498::  I::  On the Naming and Binding of Network Destinations
1490:: DS::  Multiprotocol Interconnect over Frame Relay
1483:: PS::  Multiprotocol Encapsulation over ATM Adaptation Layer 5
1475::  E::  TP/IX
1466::  I::  Guidelines for Management of IP Address Space
1454::  I::  Comparison of Proposals for Next Version of IP
1435::  I::  IESG Advice from Experience with Path MTU Discovery
1434::  I::  Data Link Switching
1433::  E::  Directed ARP
1393::  E::  Traceroute Using an IP Option
1390::  S::  Transmission of IP and ARP over FDDI Networks
1385::  I::  EIP
1379::  I::  Extending TCP for Transactions -- Concepts
1378:: PS::  The PPP AppleTalk Control Protocol (ATCP)
1377:: PS::  The PPP OSI Network Layer Control Protocol (OSINLCP)
1376:: PS::  The PPP DECnet Phase IV Control Protocol (DNCP)
1375::  I::  Suggestion for New Classes of IP Addresses
1374:: PS::  IP and ARP on HIPPI
1365::  I::  An IP Address Extension Proposal
1363::  E::  A Proposed Flow Specification
1362::  I::  Novell IPX Over Various WAN Media (IPXWAN)
1356:: PS::  Multiprotocol Interconnect on X.25 and ISDN in the 
             Packet Mode
1347::  I::  "TCP and UDP with Bigger Addresses (TUBA), A Simple
             Proposal for Internet Addressing and Routing"
1337::  I::  TIME-WAIT Assassination Hazards in TCP
1335::   ::  A Two-Tier Address Structure for the Internet
1334:: PS::  PPP Authentication Protocols
1333:: PS::  PPP Link Quality Monitoring
1332:: PS::  The PPP Internet Protocol Control Protocol (IPCP)
1331:: PS::  The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) for the Transmission 
             of Multi-protocol Datagrams over Point-to-Point Links
1329::  I::  Thoughts on Address Resolution for Dual MAC FDDI Networks
1326::  I::  Mutual Encapsulation Considered Dangerous
1323:: PS::  TCP Extensions for High Performance
1314:: PS::  A File Format for the Exchange of Images in the Internet
1307::  E::  Dynamically Switched Link Control Protocol
1306::  I::  Experiences Supporting By-Request Circuit-Switched T3 
             Networks
1294:: PS::  Multiprotocol Interconnect over Frame Relay
1293:: PS::  Inverse Address Resolution Protocol
1277:: PS::  Encoding Network Addresses to Support Operation Over 
             Non-OSI Lower Layers
1263::  I::  TCP Extensions Considered Harmful
1256:: PS::  ICMP Router Discovery Messages
1240:: PS::  OSI Connectionless Transport Services on top of UDP
1237:: PS::  Guidelines for OSI NSAP Allocation in the Internet
1236::   ::  IP to X.121 Address Mapping for DDN
1234:: PS::  Tunneling IPX Traffic through IP Networks
1226::  E::  Internet Protocol Encapsulation of AX.25 Frames
1223::   ::  OSI CLNS and LLC1 Protocols on Network Systems HYPERchannel
1220:: PS::  Point-to-Point Protocol Extensions for Bridging
1219::   ::  On the Assignment of Subnet Numbers
1210::   ::  "Network and Infrastructure User Requirements for 
             Transatlantic Research Collaboration - Brussels, 
             July 16-18, and Washington July 24-25, 1990"
1209:: DS::  The Transmission of IP Datagrams over the SMDS Service
1201::  H::  Transmitting IP Traffic over ARCNET Networks
1191:: DS::  Path MTU Discovery
1188:: DS::  A Proposed Standard for the Transmission of IP Datagrams 
             over FDDI Networks
1185::  E::  TCP Extension for High-Speed Paths
1172:: PS::  The Point-to-Point Protocol (PPP) Initial Configuration 
             Options
1171:: DS::  The Point-to-Point Protocol for the Transmission of 
             Multi-Protocol Datagrams Over Point-to-Point Links
1166::   ::  Internet Numbers
1162::   ::  Connectionless Network Protocol (ISO 8473) and End 
             System to Intermediate System (ISO 9542) Management 
             Information Base
1151::  E::  Version 2 of the Reliable Data Protocol (RDP)
1146::  E::  TCP Alternate Checksum Options
1145::  E::  TCP Alternate Checksum Options
1144:: PS::  Compressing TCP/IP headers for low-speed serial links
1141::   ::  Incremental Updating of the Internet Checksum
1139:: PS::  Echo function for ISO 8473
1134:: PS::  Point-to-Point Protocol
1132::  S::  Standard for the transmission of 802.2 packets over 
             IPX networks
1122::  S::  Requirements for Internet hosts - communication layers
1110::   ::  Problem with the TCP big window option
1106::   ::  TCP big window and NAK options
1103:: PS::  Proposed standard for the transmission of IP datagrams
             over FDDI Networks
1088::  S::  Standard for the transmission of IP datagrams over  
             NetBIOS networks
1086::   ::  ISO-TP0 bridge between TCP and X.25
1085::   ::  ISO presentation services on top of TCP/IP based internets
1078::   ::  TCP port service Multiplexer TCPMUX
1072::  E::  TCP extensions for long-delay paths
1071::   ::  Computing the Internet checksum
1070::   ::  Use of the Internet as a subnetwork for experimentation
             with the OSI network layer
1069::   ::  Guidelines for the use of Internet-IP addressesin the 
             ISO Connectionless-Mode Network Protocol
1063::   ::  IP MTU Discovery options
1062::   ::  Internet numbers
1057::  I::  RPC
1055::  S::  Nonstandard for transmission of IP datagrams over serial 
             lines
1051::  S::  Standard for the transmission of IP datagrams and ARP 
             packets over ARCNET networks
1050::  H::  RPC
1046::   ::  Queuing algorithm to provide type-of-service for IP links
1045::  E::  VMTP
1044::  S::  Internet Protocol on Network System's HYPERchannel
1042::  S::  Standard for the transmission of IP datagrams over 
             IEEE 802 networks
1030::   ::  On testing the NETBLT Protocol over divers networks
1029::   ::  More fault tolerant approach to address resolution for 
             a Multi-LAN system of Ethernets
1027::   ::  Using ARP to implement transparent subnet gateways
1025::   ::  TCP and IP bake off
1016::   ::  Something a host could do with source quench
1008::   ::  Implementation guide for the ISO Transport Protocol
1007::   ::  Military supplement to the ISO Transport Protocol
1006::  S::  ISO transport services on top of the TCP
1002::  S::  Protocol standard for a NetBIOS service on a TCP/UDP 
             transport
1001::  S::  Protocol standard for a NetBIOS service on a TCP/UDP 
             transport
 994::   ::  "Final text of DIS 8473,Protocol for Providing the 
             Connectionless-mode Network Service"
 986::   ::  Guidelines for the use of Internet-IP addressesin the 
             ISO Connectionless-Mode Network Protocol [Working draft]
 983::   ::  ISO transport arrives on top of the TCP
 982::   ::  Guidelines for the specification of the structure of the
             Domain Specific Part DSP of the ISO standard NSAP address
 970::   ::  On packet switches with infinite storage
 964::   ::  Some problems with the specification of the Military
             Standard Transmission Control Protocol
 963::   ::  Some problems with the specification of the Military 
             Standard Internet Protocol
 962::   ::  TCP-4 prime
 955::   ::  Towards a transport service for transaction processing 
             applications
 948::   ::  Two methods for the transmission of IP datagrams over 
             IEEE 802.3 networks
 942::   ::  Transport protocols for Department of Defense data 
             networks
 941::   ::  Addendum to the networkservice definition covering 
             network layer addressing
 940::   ::  Toward an Internet standard scheme for subnetting
 936::   ::  Another Internet subnet addressing scheme
 935::   ::  Reliable link layer protocols
 932::   ::  Subnetwork addressing scheme
 926::   ::  Protocol for providing the connectionless mode network 
             services
 925::   ::  Multi-LAN address resolution 
 924::   ::  Official ARPA-Internet protocols for connecting 
             personal computers to the Internet
 922::  S::  Broadcasting Internet datagrams in the presence of subnets
 919::  S::  Broadcasting Internet datagrams
 917::   ::  Internet subnets
 914::  H::  Thinwire protocol for connecting personal computers to 
             the Internet
 905::   ::  ISO Transport Protocol specification ISO DP 8073
 903::  S::  Reverse Address Resolution Protocol
 896::   ::  Congestion control in IP/TCP internetworks
 895::  S::  Standard for the transmission of IP datagrams over 
             experimental Ethernet networks
 894::  S::  Standard for the transmission of IP datagrams over 
             Ethernet networks
 893::   ::  Trailer encapsulations
 892::   ::  ISO Transport Protocol specification [Draft]
 891::  S::  DCN local-network protocols
 889::   ::  Internet delay experiments
 879::   ::  TCP maximum segment size and related topics
 877::  S::  Standard for the transmission of IP datagrams over 
             public data networks
 874::   ::  Critique of X.25
 872::   ::  TCP-on-a-LAN
 871::   ::  Perspective on the ARPANET reference model
 848::   ::  "Who provides the ""little"" TCP services?"
 829::   ::  Packet satellite technology reference sources 
 826::  S::  Ethernet Address Resolution Protocol
 824::   ::  CRONUS Virtual Local Network
 815::   ::  IP datagram reassembly algorithms
 814::   ::  "Name, addresses, ports, and routes"
 813::   ::  Window and acknowlegement strategy in TCP
 801::   ::  NCP/TCP transition plan
 793::  S::  Transmission Control Protocol
 792::  S::  Internet Control Message Protocol
 791::  S::  Internet Protocol
 789::   ::  Vulnerabilities of network control protocols
 787::   ::  Connectionless data transmission survey/tutorial
 781::   ::  Specification of the Internet Protocol IP timestamp option
 777::   ::  Internet Control Message Protocol
 768::  S::  User Datagram Protocol
 761::   ::  DOD Standard Transmission Control Protocol
 760::   ::  DoD standard Internet Protocol
 759::  H::  Internet Message Protocol
 730::   ::  Extensible field addressing
 704::   ::  IMP/Host and Host/IMP Protocol change
 696::   ::  Comments on the IMP/Host and Host/IMP Protocol changes
 695::   ::  Official change in Host-Host Protocol
 692::   ::  Comments on IMP/Host Protocol changes RFCs 687 and 690
 690::   ::  Comments on the proposed Host/IMP Protocol changes
 689::   ::  Tenex NCP finite state machine for connections
 687::   ::  IMP/Host and Host/IMP Protocol changes
 685::   ::  Response time in cross network debugging
 680::   ::  Message Transmission Protocol
 675::   ::  Specification of Internet Transmission Control Program
 674::   ::  Procedure call documents - version 2
 660::   ::  Some changes to the IMP and the IMP/Host interface
 632::   ::  Throughput degradations for single packet messages
 626::   ::  On a possible lockup condition in IMP subnet due to
             message sequencing
 613::   ::  Network connectivity
 611::   ::  Two changes to the IMP/Host Protocol to improve 
             user/network communications
 594::   ::  Speedup of Host-IMP interface
 591::   ::  Addition to the Very Distant Host specifications
 576::   ::  Proposal for modifying linking
 550::   ::  NIC NCP experiment
 548::   ::  Hosts using the IMP Going Down message
 528::   ::  Software checksumming in the IMP and network reliability
 521::   ::  Restricted use of IMP DDT
 489::   ::  Comment on resynchronization of connection status proposal
 488::   ::  NLS classes at network sites
 476::   ::  IMP/TIP memory retrofit schedule rev. 2
 473::   ::  MIX and MIXAL?
 460::   ::  NCP survey
 459::   ::  Network questionnaires
 450::   ::  MULTICS sampling timeout change
 449::   ::  Current flow-control scheme for IMPSYS
 445::   ::  IMP/TIP preventive maintenance schedule
 442::   ::  Current flow-control scheme for IMPSYS
 434::   ::  IMP/TIP memory retrofit schedule
 426::   ::  Reconnection Protocol
 417::   ::  Link usage violation
 398::   ::  ICP sockets
 395::   ::  Switch settings on IMPs and TIPs
 394::   ::  Two proposed changes to the IMP-Host Protocol
 359::   ::  Status of the release of the new IMP System
 357::   ::  Echoing strategy for satellite links
 348::   ::  Discard process
 347::   ::  Echo process
 346::   ::  Satellite considerations
 343::   ::  IMP System change notification
 312::   ::  Proposed change in IMP-to-Host Protocol
 301::   ::  "BBN IMP #5 and NCC schedule March 4, 1971"
 300::   ::  ARPA Network mailing lists
 271::   ::  IMP System change notifications
 241::   ::  Connecting computers to MLC ports
 210::   ::  Improvement of flow control
 203::   ::  Achieving reliable communication
 202::   ::  Possible deadlock in ICP
 197::   ::  Initial Connection Protocol - Reviewed
 190::   ::  DEC PDP-10-IMLAC communications system
 178::   ::  Network graphic attention handling
 176::   ::  "Comments on ""Byte size for connections"""
 175::   ::  "Comments on ""Socket conventions reconsidered"""
 166::   ::  Data Reconfiguration Service
 165::   ::  Proffered official Initial Connection Protocol
 161::   ::  Solution to the race condition in the ICP
 151::   ::  "Comments on a proffered official ICP
 150::   ::  Use of IPC facilities
 146::   ::  Views on issues relevant to data sharing on computer
             networks
 145::   ::  Initial Connection Protocol control commands
 143::   ::  Regarding proffered official ICP
 142::   ::  Time-out mechanism in the Host-Host Protocol
 128::   ::  Bytes
 127::   ::  Comments on RFC 123
 123::   ::  Proffered official ICP
 122::   ::  Network specifications for UCSB's Simple-Minded File
             System
  93::   ::  Initial Connection Protocol
  91::   ::  Proposed User-User Protocol
  80::   ::  Protocols and data formats
  79::   ::  Logger Protocol error
  70::   ::  Note on padding
  67::   ::  Proposed change to Host/IMP spec to eliminate marking
  65::   ::  Comments on Host/Host Protocol document #1
  62::   ::  Systems for interprocess communication in a resource 
             sharing computer network
  60::   ::  Simplified NCP Protocol
  59::   ::  Flow control - fixed versus demand allocation
  56::   ::  Third level protocol
  55::   ::  Prototypical implementation of the NCP
  54::   ::  Official protocol proffering
  53::   ::  Official protocol mechanism
  41::   ::  IMP-IMP teletype communication
  38::   ::  Comments on network protocol from NWG/RFC #36
  33::   ::  New Host-Host Protocol
  23::   ::  Transmission of multiple control messages
  22::   ::  Host-host control message formats
  20::   ::  ASCII format for network interchange
  19::   ::  Two protocol suggestions to reduce congestion at 
             swap bound nodes
  17::   ::  Some questions re
  12::   ::  IMP-Host interface flow diagrams
=====================================================================
Mail
2112:: PS::  The MIME Multipart/Related Content-type
2111:: PS::  Content-ID and Message-ID Uniform Resource Locators
2110:: PS::  "MIME E-mail Encapsulation of Aggregate Documents, such
             as HTML (MHTML)"
2109:: PS::  HTTP State Management Mechanism
2095:: PS::  IMAP/POP AUTHorize Extension for Simple Challenge/Response
2088:: PS::  IMAP4 non-synchroniziong literals
2087:: PS::  IMAP4 QUOTA extension
2086:: PS::  IMAP4 ACL extension
2077:: PS::  The Model Primary Content Type for Multipurpose 
             Internet Mail Extensions
2076::  I::  Common Internet Message Headers
2062::  I::  Internet Message Access Protocol - Obsolete Syntax
2061::  I::  IMAP4 COMPATIBILITY WITH IMAP2BIS
2060:: PS::  INTERNET MESSAGE ACCESS PROTOCOL - VERSION 4rev1
2049:: DS::  Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part Five
2048:: BC::  Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part Four
2047:: DS::  MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) Part Three
2046:: DS::  Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part Two
2045:: DS::  Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions (MIME) Part One
2034:: PS::  SMTP Service Extension for Returning Enhanced Error Codes
2033::  I::  Local Mail Transfer Protocol
2017:: PS::  Definition of the URL MIME External-Body Access-Type
1991::  I::  PGP Message Exchange Formats
1985:: PS::  SMTP Service Extension for Remote Message Queue Starting
1957::  I::  Some Observations on Implementations of the Post Office 
             Protocol (POP3)
1947::  I::  Greek Character Encoding for Electronic Mail Messages
1939::  S::  Post Office Protocol - Version 3
1927::  I::  Suggested Additional MIME Types for Associating Documents
1922::  I::  Chinese Character Encoding for Internet Messages
1911::  E::  Voice Profile for Internet Mail
1896::  I::  The text/enriched MIME Content-type
1895::  I::  The Application/CALS-1840 Content-type
1894:: PS::  An Extensible Message Format for Delivery Status 
             Notifications
1893:: PS::  Enhanced Mail System Status Codes
1892:: PS::  The Multipart/Report Content Type for the Reporting 
             of Mail System Administrative Messages
1891:: PS::  SMTP Service Extension for Delivery Status Notifications
1873::  E::  Message/External-Body Content-ID Access Type
1872::  E::  The MIME Multipart/Related Content-type
1870::  S::  SMTP Service Extension for Message Size Declaration
1869::  S::  SMTP Service Extensions
1864:: DS::  The Content-MD5 Header Field
1854:: PS::  SMTP Service Extension for Command Pipelining
1848:: PS::  MIME Object Security Services
1847:: PS::  Security Multiparts for MIME
1846::  E::  SMTP 521 reply code
1845::  E::  SMTP Service Extension for Checkpoint/Restart
1844::  I::  Multimedia E-mail (MIME) User Agent checklist
1830::  E::  SMTP Service Extensions for Transmission of Large 
             and Binary MIME Messages
1820::  I::  Multimedia E-mail (MIME) User Agent Checklist
1806::  E::  Communicating Presentation Information in Internet
             Messages
1804::  E::  Schema Publishing in X.500 Directory
1803::  I::  Recommendations for an X.500 Production Directory Service
1801::  E::  MHS use of the X.500 Directory to support MHS Routing
1767:: PS::  MIME Encapsulation of EDI Objects
1741::  I::  MIME Content Type for BinHex Encoded Files
1740:: PS::  MIME Encapsulation of Macintosh files - MacMIME
1734:: PS::  POP3 AUTHentication command
1733::  I::  DISTRIBUTED ELECTRONIC MAIL MODELS IN IMAP4
1732::  I::  IMAP4 COMPATIBILITY WITH IMAP2 AND IMAP2BIS
1731:: PS::  IMAP4 Authentication mechanisms
1730:: PS::  INTERNET MESSAGE ACCESS PROTOCOL - VERSION 4
1725:: DS::  Post Office Protocol - Version 3
1711::  I::  Classifications in E-mail Routing
1685::  I::  Writing X.400 O/R Names
1653:: DS::  SMTP Service Extension for Message Size Declaration
1652:: DS::  SMTP Service Extension for 8bit-MIMEtransport
1651:: DS::  SMTP Service Extensions
1649::  I::  Operational Requirements for X.400 Management Domains
             in the GO-MHS Community
1648:: PS::  Postmaster Convention for X.400 Operations
1642::  E::  UTF-7 - A Mail-Safe Transformation Format of Unicode
1641::  E::  Using Unicode with MIME
1616::  I::  X.400(1988) for the Academic and Research Community 
             in Europe
1615::  I::  Migrating from X.400(84) to X.400(88)
1563::  I::  The text/enriched MIME Content-type
1557::  I::  Korean Character Encoding for Internet Messages
1556::  I::  Handling of Bi-directional Texts in MIME
1555::  I::  Hebrew Character Encoding for Internet Messages
1544:: PS::  The Content-MD5 Header Field
1524::  I::  A User Agent Configuration Mechanism For Multimedia  
             Mail Format Information
1523::  I::  The text/enriched MIME Content-type
1522:: DS::  MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) Part Two
1521:: DS::  MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions) Part One
1506::  I::  A tutorial on gatewaying between X.400 and Internet mail
1505::  E::  Encoding Header Field for Internet Messages
1502:: PS::  X.400 Use of Extended Character Sets
1496:: PS::  Rules for downgrading messages from X.400/88 to X.400/84
             when MIME content-types are present in the messages
1495:: PS::  Mapping between X.400 and RFC-822 Message Bodies
1494:: PS::  Equivalences between 1988 X.400 and RFC-822 Message Bodies
1468::  I::  Japanese Character Encoding for Internet Messages
1465::  E::  Routing coordination for X.400 MHS services within a
             multi protocol / multi network environment Table Format
             V3 for static routing
1460:: DS::  Post Office Protocol - Version 3
1456::  I::  Conventions for Encoding the Vietnamese Language VISCII
1437::  I::  The Extension of MIME Content-Types to a New Medium
1429::  I::  Listserv Distribute Protocol
1428::  I::  Transition of Internet Mail from Just-Send-8 to 
             8Bit-SMTP/MIME
1427:: PS::  SMTP Service Extension for Message Size Declaration
1426:: PS::  SMTP Service Extension for 8bit-MIMEtransport
1425:: PS::  SMTP Service Extensions
1405::  E::  Mapping between X.400(1984/1988) and Mail-11 (DECnet mail)
1357::  I::  A Format for E-mailing Bibliographic Records
1344::  I::  Implications of MIME for Internet Mail Gateways
1343::  I::  A User Agent Configuration Mechanism For Multimedia 
             Mail Format Information
1342:: PS::  Representation of Non-ASCII Text in Internet Message
             Headers
1341:: PS::  MIME (Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions)
1339::  E::  Remote Mail Checking Protocol
1328:: PS::  X.400 1988 to 1984 downgrading
1327:: PS::  Mapping between X.400(1988) / ISO 10021 and RFC 822
1225:: DS::  Post Office Protocol - Version 3
1211::   ::  Problems with the Maintenance of Large Mailing Lists
1204::  E::  Message Posting Protocol (MPP)
1203::  H::  Interactive Mail Access Protocol - Version 3
1176::  E::  Interactive Mail Access Protocol - Version 2
1168::   ::  Intermail and Commercial Mail Relay Services
1159::  E::  Message Send Protocol
1154::  E::  Encoding Header Field for Internet Messages
1153::  E::  Digest Message Format
1148::  E::  Mapping between X.400 (1988) / ISO 10021 and RFC 822
1138::  I::  Mapping between X.400(1988) / ISO 10021 and RFC 822
1137::  E::  Mapping between full RFC 822 and RFC 822 with restricted
             encoding
1090::   ::  SMTP on X.25
1082::  H::  Post Office Protocol - version 3
1081:: PS::  Post Office Protocol - version 3
1064::  H::  Interactive Mail Access Protocol
1056::  I::  PCMAIL
1049::  S::  Content-type header field for Internet messages
1047::   ::  Duplicate messages and SMTP
1026:: PS::  Addendum to RFC 987
 993::   ::  PCMAIL
 987:: PS::  Mapping between X.400 and RFC 822
 984::   ::  PCMAIL
 976::   ::  UUCP mail interchange format standard
 974::  S::  Mail routing and the domain system
 937::  H::  Post Office Protocol - version 2
 934::   ::  Proposed standard for message encapsulation
 918::   ::  Post Office Protocol
 915::   ::  Network mail path service
 910::   ::  Multimedia mail meeting notes
 886::   ::  Proposed standard for message header munging
 876::   ::  Survey of SMTP implementations
 841::   ::  Specification for message format for Computer Based
             Message Systems
 822::  S::  Standard for the format of ARPA Internet text messages
 821::  S::  Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
 808::   ::  Summary of computer mail services meeting held at BBN
             on 10 January 1979
 807::   ::  Multimedia mail meeting notes
 805::   ::  Computer mail meeting notes
 788::   ::  Simple Mail Transfer Protocol
 786::   ::  Mail Transfer Protocol
 785::   ::  Mail Transfer Protocol
 784::   ::  Mail Transfer Protocol
 780::   ::  Mail Transfer Protocol
 773::   ::  Comments on NCP/TCP mail service transition strategy
 772::   ::  Mail Transfer Protocol
 771::   ::  Mail transition plan
 767::   ::  Structured format for transmission of multi-media 
             documents
 763::   ::  Role mailboxes
 757::   ::  "Suggested solution to the naming, addressing, and delivery problem for ARPANET message systems"
 754::   ::  Out-of-net host addresses for mail
 753::   ::  Internet Message Protocol
 744::   ::  MARS - a Message Archiving and Retrieval Service
 733::   ::  Standard for theformat of ARPA network text messages
 724::   ::  Proposed official standard for the format of ARPA 
             Network messages
 720::   ::  Address specification syntax for network mail
 714::   ::  Host-Host Protocol for an ARPANET-type network
 713::   ::  MSDTP-Message Services Data Transmission Protocol
 706::   ::  On the junk mail problem
 577::   ::  Mail priority
 574::   ::  Announcement of a mail facility at UCSB
 561::   ::  Standardizingnetwork mail headers
 555::   ::  Responses to critiques of the proposed mail protocol
 539::   ::  Thoughts on the mail protocol proposed in RFC524
 534::   ::  Lost message detection
 533::   ::  Message-ID numbers
 524::   ::  Proposed Mail Protocol
 516::   ::  Lost message detection
 512::   ::  More on lost message detection
 510::   ::  Request for network mailbox addresses
 498::   ::  On mail service to CCN
 475::   ::  FTP and network mail system
 469::   ::  Network mail meeting summary
 458::   ::  Mail retrieval via FTP
 453::   ::  Meeting announcement to discuss a network mail system
 333::   ::  Proposed experiment with a Message Switching Protocol
 278::   ::  Revision of theMail Box Protocol
 224::   ::  Comments on Mailbox Protocol
 221::   ::  Mail Box Protocol
 196::   ::  Mail Box Protocol
  58::   ::  Logical message synchronization
  42::   ::  Message data types
=====================================================================

NTP
2030::  I::  "Simple Network Time Protocol (SNTP) Version 4 for IPv4,
             IPv6 and OSI"
1769::  I::  Simple Network Time Protocol (SNTP)
1708::  I::  NTP PICS PROFORMA For the Network Time Protocol Version 3
1589::  I::  A Kernel Model for Precision Timekeeping
1361::  I::  Simple Network Time Protocol (SNTP)
1305:: PS::  Network Time Protocol (v3)
1165::  E::  Network Time Protocol (NTP) over the OSI Remote Operations
             Service
1129::   ::  Internet time synchronization
1128::   ::  Measured performance of the Network Time Protocol in the
             Internet system
1119::  S::  Network Time Protocol version 2 specification and 
             implementation
1059::   ::  Network Time Protocol version 1 specification and 
             implementation
 958::   ::  Network Time Protocol NTP
 957::   ::  Experiments in network clock synchronization
 956::   ::  Algorithms for synchronizing network clocks
 868::  S::  Time Protocol
 867::  S::  Daytime Protocol
 778::  H::  DCNET Internet Clock Service
 738::   ::  Time server
  29::   ::  Response to RFC 28
  28::   ::  Time standards
=====================================================================
Name Serving
2053::  I::  The AM (Armenia) Domain
2052::  E::  A DNS RR for specifying the location of services (DNS SRV)
2010::  I::  Operational Criteria for Root Name Servers
1996:: PS::  A Mechanism for Prompt Notification of Zone Changes
             (DNS NOTIFY)
1995:: PS::  Incremental Zone Transfer in DNS
1982:: PS::  Serial Number Arithmetic
1956::  I::  Registration in the MIL Domain
1912::  I::  Common DNS Operational and Configuration Errors
1886:: PS::  DNS Extensions to support IP version 6
1876::  E::  A Means for Expressing Location Information in the 
             Domain Name System
1794::  I::  DNS Support for Load Balancing
1713::  I::  Tools for DNS debugging
1712::  E::  DNS Encoding of Geographical Location
1706::  I::  DNS NSAP Resource Records
1664::  E::  Using the Internet DNS to Distribute RFC1327 Mail
             Address Mapping Tables
1591::  I::  Domain Name System Structure and Delegation
1537::  I::  Common DNS Data File Configuration Error
1536::  I::  Common DNS Implementation Errors and Suggested Fixes.
1480::  I::  The US Domain
1464::  E::  Using the Domain Name System To Store Arbitrary 
             String Attributes
1394::  I::  Relationship of Telex Answerback Codes to Internet Domains
1386::  I::  The US Domain
1348::  E::  DNS NSAP RRs
1183::  E::  New DNS RR Definitions
1101::   ::  DNS encoding of network names and other types
1035::  S::  Domain names - implementation and specification
1034::  S::  Domain names - concepts and facilities
1033::   ::  Domain administrators operations guide
1032::   ::  Domain administrators guide
1031::   ::  MILNET name domain transition
 973::   ::  Domain system changes and observations
 952::   ::  DoD Internet host table specification
 921::   ::  Domain name system implementation schedule - revised
 920::   ::  Domain requirements
 897::   ::  Domain name system implementation schedule
 883::   ::  Domain names
 882::   ::  Domain names
 881::   ::  Domain names plan and schedule
 849::   ::  Suggestions for improved host table distribution
 830::   ::  Distributed system for Internet name service
 819::   ::  Domain naming convention for Internet user applications
 811::   ::  Hostnames Server
 810::   ::  DoD Internet host table specification
 799::   ::  Internet name domains
 796::   ::  Address mappings
 627::   ::  ASCII text file of hostnames
 625::   ::  On-line hostnames service
 623::   ::  Comments on on-line host name service
 620::   ::  Request for monitor host table updates
 608::   ::  Host names on-line
 606::   ::  Host names on-line
 289::   ::  What we hope is an official list of host names
 280::   ::  Draft of host names
 273::   ::  More on standard host names
 247::   ::  Proffered set of standard host names
 237::   ::  NIC view of standard host names
 236::   ::  Standard host names
 233::   ::  Standardization of host call letters
 229::   ::  Standard host names
 226::   ::  Standardization of host mnemonics
=====================================================================
Network Management
2128:: PS::  Dial Control Management Information Base using SMIv2
2127:: PS::  ISDN Management Information Base
2124::  I::  Light-weight Flow Admission Protocol Specification 
             Version 1.0
2108:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for IEEE 802.3 Repeater 
             Devices using SMIv2
2096:: PS::  IP Forwarding Table MIB
2089::  I::  V2ToV1 Mapping SNMPv2 onto SNMPv1 within a bi-lingual
             SNMP agent
2074:: PS::  Remote Network Monitoring MIB Protocol Identifiers
2064::  E::  Traffic Flow Measurement
2063::  E::  Traffic Flow Measurement
2051:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for APPC
2041::  I::  Mobile Network Tracing
2039::  I::  Applicability of Standards Track MIBs to Management 
             of World Wide Web Servers
2037:: PS::  Entity MIB
2024:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for Data Link Switching 
             using SNMPv2
2021:: PS::  Remote Network Monitoring Management Information 
             Base Version 2 using SMIv2
2020:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for IEEE 802.12 Interfaces
2013:: PS::  SNMPv2 Management Information Base for the User
             Datagram Protocol using SMIv2
2012:: PS::  SNMPv2 Management Information Base for the 
             Transmission Control Protocol
2011:: PS::  SNMPv2 Management Information Base for the Internet
             Protocol using SMIv2
2006:: PS::  The Definitions of Managed Objects for IP Mobility 
             Support using SMIv2
1944::  I::  Benchmarking Methodology for Network Interconnect Devices
1910::  E::  User-based Security Model for SNMPv2
1909::  E::  An Administrative Infrastructure for SNMPv2
1908:: DS::  Coexistence between Version 1 and Version 2 of the
             Internet-standard Network Management Framework
1907:: DS::  Management Information Base for Version 2 of the 
             Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)
1906:: DS::  Transport Mappings for Version 2 of the Simple Network 
             Management Protocol (SNMPv2)
1905:: DS::  Protocol Operations for Version 2 of the Simple Network
             Management Protocol (SNMPv2)
1904:: DS::  Conformance Statements for Version 2 of the Simple
             Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)
1903:: DS::  Textual Conventions for Version 2 of the Simple 
             Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)
1902:: DS::  Structure of Management Information for Version 2 of
             the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)
1901::  E::  Introduction to Community-based SNMPv2
1857::  I::  A Model for Common Operational Statistics
1856::  I::  The Opstat Client-Server Model for Statistics Retrieval
1850:: DS::  OSPF Version 2 Management Information Base
1792::  E::  TCP/IPX Connection Mib Specification
1759:: PS::  Printer MIB
1757:: DS::  Remote Network Monitoring Management Information Base
1749:: PS::  IEEE 802.5 Station Source Routing MIB using SMIv2
1748:: DS::  IEEE 802.5 MIB using SMIv2
1747:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for SNA Data Link Control
1743:: DS::  IEEE 802.5 MIB using SMIv2
1742:: PS::  AppleTalk Management Information Base II
1724:: DS::  RIP Version 2 MIB Extension
1697:: PS::  Relational Database Management System (RDBMS) 
             Management Information Base (MIB) using SMIv2
1696:: PS::  Modem Management Information Base (MIB) using SMIv2
1695:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for ATM Management 
             Version 8.0 using SMIv2
1694:: DS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for SMDS Interfaces 
             using SMIv2
1666:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for SNA NAUs using SMIv2
1665:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for SNA NAUs using SMIv2
1660:: DS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for Parallel-printer-like
             Hardware Devices using SMIv2
1659:: DS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for RS-232-like 
             Hardware Devices using SMIv2
1658:: DS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for Character Stream 
             Devices using SMIv2
1657:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for the Fourth Version
             of the Border Gateway Protocol (BGP-4) using SMIv2
1650:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for the Ethernet-like
             Interface Types using SMIv2
1643:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for the Ethernet-like 
             Interface Types
1628:: PS::  UPS Management Information Base
1623::  S::  Definitions of Managed Objects for the Ethernet-like
             Interface Types
1612:: PS::  DNS Resolver MIB Extensions
1611:: PS::  DNS Server MIB Extensions
1596:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for Frame Relay Service
1595:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for the SONET/SDH
             Interface Type
1593::  I::  SNA APPN Node MIB
1592::  E::  Simple Network Management Protocol Distributed Protocol 
             Interface Version 2.0
1573:: PS::  Evolution of the Interfaces Group of MIB-II
1567:: PS::  X.500 Directory Monitoring MIB
1566:: PS::  Mail Monitoring MIB
1565:: PS::  Network Services Monitoring MIB
1564::  I::  DSA Metrics (OSI-DS 34 (v3))
1559:: DS::  DECnet Phase IV MIB Extensions
1525:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for Source Routing Bridges
1516:: DS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for IEEE 802.3 
             Repeater Devices
1515:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for IEEE 802.3
             Medium Attachment Units (MAUs)
1514:: PS::  Host Resources MIB
1513:: PS::  Token Ring Extensions to the Remote Network Monitoring MIB
1512:: PS::  FDDI Management Information Base
1503::  I::  Algorithms for Automating Administration in SNMPv2
             Managers
1493:: DS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for Bridges
1474:: PS::  The Definitions of Managed Objects for the Bridge
             Network Control Protocol of the Point-to-Point Protocol
1473:: PS::  The Definitions of Managed Objects for the IP Network 
             Control Protocol of the Point-to-Point Protocol
1472:: PS::  The Definitions of Managed Objects for the Security 
             Protocols of the Point-to-Point Protocol
1471:: PS::  The Definitions of Managed Objects for the Link Control
             Protocol of the Point-to-Point Protocol
1470::  I::  FYI on a Network Management Tool Catalog
1461:: PS::  SNMP MIB extension for MultiProtocol Interconnect over
             X.25
1452:: PS::  Coexistence between version 1 and version 2 of the 
             Internet-standard Network Management Framework
1451:: PS::  Manager to Manager Management Information Base
1450:: PS::  Management Information Base for version 2 of the Simple
             Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)
1449:: PS::  Transport Mappings for version 2 of the Simple Network 
             Management Protocol (SNMPv2)
1448:: PS::  Protocol Operations for version 2 of the Simple Network 
             Management Protocol (SNMPv2)
1447:: PS::  Party MIB for version 2 of the Simple Network Management 
             Protocol (SNMPv2)
1446:: PS::  Security Protocols for version 2 of the Simple Network 
             Management Protocol (SNMPv2)
1445:: PS::  Administrative Model for version 2 of the Simple Network
             Management Protocol (SNMPv2)
1444:: PS::  Conformance Statements for version 2 of the Simple 
             Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)
1443:: PS::  Textual Conventions for version 2 of the Simple Network
             Management Protocol (SNMPv2)
1442:: PS::  Structure of Management Information for version 2 of the
             Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)
1441:: PS::  Introduction to version 2 of the Internet-standard 
             Network Management Framework
1431::  I::  DUA Metrics
1420:: PS::  SNMP over IPX
1419:: PS::  SNMP over AppleTalk
1418:: PS::  SNMP over OSI
1414:: PS::  Ident MIB
1407:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for the DS3/E3 Interface 
             Type
1406:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for the DS1 and E1
             Interface Types
1404::  I::  A Model for Common Operational Statistics
1398:: DS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for the Ethernet-like
             Interface Types
1389:: PS::  RIP Version 2 MIB Extension
1382:: PS::  SNMP MIB Extension for the X.25 Packet Layer
1381:: PS::  SNMP MIB Extension for X.25 LAPB
1369::  I::  Implementation Notes and Experience for The Internet 
             Ethernet MIB
1368:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for IEEE 802.3 Repeater 
             Devices
1354:: PS::  IP Forwarding Table MIB
1353::  H::  Definitions of Managed Objects for Administration of 
             SNMP Parties
1352::  H::  SNMP Security Protocols
1351::  H::  SNMP Administrative Model
1346::  I::  "Resource Allocation, Control, and Accounting for the 
             Use of Network Resources"
1318:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for Parallel-printer-like 
             Hardware Devices
1317:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for RS-232-like 
             Hardware Devices
1316:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for Character Stream 
             Devices
1315:: PS::  Management Information Base for Frame Relay DTEs
1304:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for the SIP Interface Type
1303::  I::  A Convention for Describing SNMP-based Agents
1298::  I::  SNMP over IPX
1289:: PS::  DECnet Phase IV MIB Extensions
1286:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for Bridges
1285:: PS::  FDDI Management Information Base
1284:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for the Ethernet-like
              Interface Types
1283::  E::  SNMP over OSI
1273::  I::  "A Measurement Study of Changes in Service-Level
             Reachability in the Global TCP/IP Internet
1272::  I::  Internet Accounting
1271:: PS::  Remote Network Monitoring Management Information Base
1270::  I::  SNMP Communications Services
1269:: PS::  Definitions of Managed Objects for the Border Gateway
             Protocol (Version 3)
1262::   ::  Guidelines for Internet Measurement Activities
1253:: PS::  OSPF Version 2 Management Information Base
1252:: PS::  OSPF Version 2 Management Information Base
1248:: PS::  OSPF Version 2 Management Information Base
1247:: DS::  OSPF Version 2
1243:: PS::  AppleTalk Management Information Base
1242::  I::  Benchmarking Terminology for Network Interconnection
             Devices
1239:: PS::  Reassignment of Experimental MIBs to Standard MIBs
1238::  E::  CLNS MIB - for use with Connectionless Network 
             Protocol (ISO 8473) and End System to Intermediate 
             System (ISO 9542)
1233::  H::  Definitions of Managed Objects for the DS3 Interface Type
1232::  H::  Definitions of Managed Objects for the DS1 Interface Type
1231:: DS::  IEEE 802.5 Token Ring MIB
1230::  H::  IEEE 802.4 Token Bus MIB
1229:: DS::  Extensions to the Generic-Interface MIB
1228::  E::  SNMP-DPI - Simple Network Management Protocol 
             Distributed Program Interface
1227::  E::  SNMP MUX Protocol and MIB
1224::  E::  Techniques for Managing Asynchronously Generated Alerts
1215::  I::  A Convention for Defining Traps for use with the SNMP
1214::  H::  OSI Internet Management
1213::  S::  Management Information Base for Network Management of 
             TCP/IP-based internets
1212::  S::  Concise MIB Definitions
1189::  H::  The Common Management Information Services and Protocols 
             for the Internet
1187::  E::  Bulk Table Retrieval with the SNMP
1161::  E::  SNMP over OSI
1158:: PS::  Management Information Base for Network Management of 
TCP/IP-based internets
1157::  S::  A Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)
1155::  S::  Structure and Identification of Management Information 
             for TCP/IP-based Internets
1109::   ::  Report of the second Ad Hoc Network Management Review 
             Group
1098::   ::  Simple Network Management Protocol SNMP
1095:: DS::  Common Management Information Services and Protocol 
             over TCP/IP CMOT
1089::   ::  SNMP over Ethernet
1067::   ::  Simple Network Management Protocol
1066::  H::  Management Information Base for network management of 
             TCP/IP-based internets
1065::  H::  Structure and identification of management information 
             for TCP/IP-based internets
1052::   ::  IAB recommendations for the development of Internet
             network management standards
1028::  H::  Simple Gateway Monitoring Protocol
1024::   ::  HEMS variable definitions
1023::   ::  HEMS monitoring and control language
1022::   ::  High-level Entity Management Protocol HEMP
1021::  H::  High-level Entity Management System HEMS
1012::   ::  Bibliography of Request For Comments 1 through 999
1011::  S::  Official Internet protocols
1010::  S::  Assigned numbers
 996::  H::  Statistics server
 619::   ::  Mean round-trip times in the ARPANET
 618::   ::  Few observations on NCP statistics
 616::   ::  Latest network maps
 615::   ::  Proposed Network Standard Data Pathname Syntax
 612::   ::  Traffic statistics December 1973
 601::   ::  Traffic statistics November 1973
 586::   ::  Traffic statistics October 1973
 579::   ::  Traffic statistics September 1973
 568::   ::  Response to RFC 567 - cross country network bandwidth
 567::   ::  Cross country network bandwidth
 566::   ::  Traffic statistics August 1973
 565::   ::  Storing network survey data at the datacomputer
 557::   ::  Revelations in network host measurements
 546::   ::  Tenex load averages for July 1973
 545::   ::  Of what quality be the UCSB resources evaluators?
 538::   ::  Traffic statistics June 1973
 531::   ::  Feast or famine? A response to two recent RFC's about
             network information
 522::   ::  Traffic statistics May 1973
 509::   ::  Traffic statistics April 1973
 500::   ::  Integration of data management systems on a computer
             network
 482::   ::  Traffic statistics February 1973
 455::   ::  Traffic statistics January 1973
 443::   ::  Traffic statistics December 1972
 423::   ::  UCLA Campus Computing Network liaison staff for ARPANET
 422::   ::  Traffic statistics November 1972
 421::   ::  Software consulting service for network users
 416::   ::  ARC system will be unavailable for use during 
             Thanksgivingweek 
 415::   ::  Tenex bandwidth
 413::   ::  Traffic statistics October 1972
 400::   ::  Traffic statistics September 1972
 392::   ::  Measurement of host costs for transmitting network data
 391::   ::  Traffic statistics August 1972
 389::   ::  UCLA Campus Computing Network liaison staff for ARPA
             Network
 388::   ::  NCP statistics
 384::   ::  Official site idents for organizations in the ARPA 
             Network
 381::   ::  Three aids to improved network operation
 378::   ::  Traffic statistics July 1972
 369::   ::  "Evaluation of ARPANET services January-March, 1972"
 362::   ::  Network host status
 353::   ::  Network host status
 344::   ::  Network host status
 326::   ::  Network host status
 323::   ::  Formation of Network Measurement Group NMG
 308::   ::  ARPANET host availability data
 304::   ::  Data management system proposal for the ARPA network
 302::   ::  Exercising the ARPANET
 274::   ::  Establishing a local guide for network usage
 227::   ::  Data transfer rates Rand/UCLA
 212::   ::  NWG meeting on network usage
 193::   ::  Network checkout
 188::   ::  Data management meeting announcement
 156::   ::  Status of the Illinois site
 153::   ::  SRI ARC-NIC status
  96::   ::  Interactive network experiment to study modes of
             access tothe Network Information Center   
  32::   ::  Connecting M.I.T. computers to the 
             ARPA Computer-to-computer communication network
  18::   ::  [Link assignments]
 ====================================================================== 
Network News

1036::   ::  Standard for interchange of USENET messages
 977:: PS::  Network News Transfer Protocol
 850::   ::  Standard for interchange of USENET messages
=================================================================== 
Real Time Services
:: :: 
2102::  I::  Multicast Support for Nimrod 
2090::  E::  TFTP Multicast Option
2038:: PS::  RTP Payload Format for MPEG1/MPEG2 Video
2035:: PS::  RTP Payload Format for JPEG-compressed Video
2032:: PS::  RTP payload format for H.261 video streams
2029:: PS::  RTP Payload Format of Sun's CellB Video Encoding
2022:: PS::  Support for Multicast over UNI 3.0/3.1 based ATM 
             Networks
1890:: PS::  RTP Profile for Audio and Video Conferences with Minimal 
             Control
1889:: PS::  RTP
1861::  I::  Simple Network Paging Protocol - Version 3 - Two-Way
             Enhanced
1821::  I::  Integration of Real-time Services in an IP-ATM Network 
             Architecture
1819::  E::  Internet Stream Protocol Version 2 (ST2) Protocol 
             Specification - Version ST2+
1789::  I::  INETPhone
1768::  E::  Host Group Extensions for CLNP Multicasting
1703::  I::  Principles of Operation for the TPC.INT Subdomain
1645::  I::  Simple Network Paging Protocol - Version 2
1614::  I::  Network Access to Multimedia Information
1569::  I::  Principles of Operation for the TPC.INT Subdomain
1568::  I::  Simple Network Paging Protocol - Version 1(b)
1546::  I::  Host Anycasting Service
1469:: PS::  IP Multicast over Token-Ring Local Area Networks
1458::  I::  Requirements for Multicast Protocols
1453::  I::  A Comment on Packet Video Remote Conferencing and the
             Transport/Network Layers
1313::  I::  Today's Programming for KRFC AM 1313 Internet Talk Radio
1301::  I::  Multicast Transport Protocol
1257::  I::  Isochronous Applications Do Not Require 
             Jitter-Controlled Networks
1197::  I::  Using ODA for Translating Multimedia Information
1193::   ::  Client Requirements for Real-Time Communication Services
1190::  E::  "Experimental Internet Stream Protocol, Version 2 (ST-II)"
1112::  S::  Host extensions for IP multicasting
1054::   ::  Host extensions for IP multicasting
 988::   ::  Host extensions for IP multicasting
 966::   ::  Host groups
 947::   ::  Multi-network broadcasting within the Internet
 809::   ::  UCL facsimile system
 804::   ::  CCITT draft recommendation T.4 [Standardization of 
             Group 3 facsimile apparatus for document transmission]
 803::   ::  Dacom 450/500 facsimile data transcoding
 798::   ::  Decoding facsimile data from the Rapicom 450
 769::   ::  Rapicom 450 facsimile file format
 741::   ::  Specifications for the Network Voice Protocol NVP
 511::   ::  Enterprise phone service to NIC from ARPANET sites
 508::   ::  Real-time data transmission on the ARPANET
 420::   ::  CCA ICCC weather demo
 408::   ::  NETBANK
 251::   ::  Weather data
=====================================================================
Routing

2103::  I::  Mobility Support for Nimrod 
2092::  I::  Protocol Analysis for Triggered RIP
2091:: PS::  Triggered Extensions to RIP to Support Demand Circuits
2081::  I::  RIPng Protocol Applicability Statement
2080:: PS::  RIPng for IPv6
2073:: PS::  An IPv6 Provider-Based Unicast Address Format
2072::  I::  Router Renumbering Guide
2042::  I::  Registering New BGP Attribute Types
2008:: BC::  Implications of Various Address Allocation Policies for 
             Internet Routing
1998::  I::  An Application of the BGP Community Attribute in
             Multi-home Routing
1997:: PS::  BGP Communities Attribute
1992::  I::  The Nimrod Routing Architecture
1987::  I::  Ipsilon's General Switch Management Protocol 
             Specification Version 1.1
1966::  E::  BGP Route Reflection An alternative to full mesh IBGP
1965::  E::  Autonomous System Confederations for BGP
1955::  I::  New Scheme for Internet Routing and Addressing (ENCAPS) 
             for IPN
1953::  I::  Ipsilon Flow Management Protocol Specification for 
             IPv4 Version 1.0
1940::  I::  Source Demand Routing
1930:: BC::  "Guidelines for creation, selection, and registration 
             of an Autonomous System (AS)"
1925::  I::  The Twelve Networking Truths
1923::  I::  RIPv1 Applicability Statement for Historic Status
1863::  E::  A BGP/IDRP Route Server alternative to a full mesh routing
1817::  I::  CIDR and Classful Routing
1812:: PS::  Requirements for IP Version 4 Routers
1793:: PS::  Extending OSPF to Support Demand Circuits
1787::  I::  Routing in a Multi-provider Internet
1786::  I::  Representation of IP Routing Policies in a Routing Registry (ripe-81++)
1774::  I::  BGP-4 Protocol Analysis
1773::  I::  Experience with the BGP-4 protocol
1772:: DS::  Application of the Border Gateway Protocol in the Internet
1771:: DS::  A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4)
1765::  E::  OSPF Database Overflow
1753::  I::  IPng Technical Requirements Of the Nimrod Routing and 
             Addressing Architecture
1745:: PS::  BGP4/IDRP for IP---OSPF Interaction
1723:: DS::  RIP Version 2 Carrying Additional Information
1722:: DS::  RIP Version 2 Protocol Applicability Statement
1721::  I::  RIP Version 2 Protocol Analysis
1716::  I::  Towards Requirements for IP Routers
1702::  I::  Generic Routing Encapsulation over IPv4 networks
1701::  I::  Generic Routing Encapsulation (GRE)
1668::  I::  Unified Routing Requirements for IPng
1656::  I::  BGP-4 Protocol Document Roadmap and Implementation 
             Experience
1655:: PS::  Application of the Border Gateway Protocol in the
             Internet
1654:: PS::  A Border Gateway Protocol 4 (BGP-4)
1587:: PS::  The OSPF NSSA Option
1586::  I::  Guidelines for Running OSPF Over Frame Relay Networks
1585::  I::  MOSPF
1584:: PS::  Multicast Extensions to OSPF
1583:: DS::  OSPF Version 2
1582:: PS::  Extensions to RIP to Support Demand Circuits
1581::  I::  Protocol Analysis for Extensions to RIP to Support
             Demand Circuits
1520::  I::  Exchanging Routing Information Across Provider Boundaries 
             in the CIDR Environment
1519:: PS::  Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR)
1517:: PS::  Applicability Statement for the Implementation of 
             Classless Inter-Domain Routing (CIDR)
1504::  I::  Appletalk Update-Based Routing Protocol
1482::  I::  Aggregation Support in the NSFNET Policy Routing Database
1479:: PS::  Inter-Domain Policy Routing Protocol Specification
1478:: PS::  An Architecture for Inter-Domain Policy Routing
1477::  I::  IDPR as a Proposed Standard
1476::  E::  RAP
1439::  I::  The Uniqueness of Unique Identifiers
1403:: PS::  BGP OSPF Interaction
1397:: PS::  Default Route Advertisement In BGP2 And BGP3 Versions Of 
             The Border Gateway Protocol
1388:: PS::  RIP Version 2 Carrying Additional Information
1387::  I::  RIP Version 2 Protocol Analysis
1383::  I::  An Experiment in DNS Based IP Routing
1380::  I::  IESG Deliberations on Routing and Addressing
1371::  I::  "Choosing a ""Common IGP"" for the IP Internet (The
             IESG's Recommendation to the IAB)"
1370:: PS::  Applicability Statement for OSPF
1364:: PS::  BGP OSPF Interaction
1338::  I::  Supernetting
1322::  I::  A Unified Approach to Inter-Domain Routing
1268:: DS::  Application of the Border Gateway Protocol in the Internet
1267:: DS::  A Border Gateway Protocol 3 (BGP-3)
1266::  I::  Experience with the BGP Protocol
1265::  I::  BGP Protocol Analysis
1264::  I::  Internet Routing Protocol Standardization Criteria
1254::  I::  Gateway Congestion Control Survey
1246::  I::  Experience with the OSPF Protocol
1245::  I::  OSPF Protocol Analysis
1222::   ::  Advancing the NSFNET Routing Architecture
1195:: PS::  Use of OSI IS-IS for Routing in TCP/IP and Dual
             Environments
1164:: PS::  Application of the Border Gateway Protocol in the Internet
1163:: PS::  A Border Gateway Protocol (BGP)
1142::  I::  OSI IS-IS Intra-domain Routing Protocol
1136::   ::  Administrative Domains and Routing Domains
1133::   ::  Routing between the NSFNET and the DDN
1131:: PS::  OSPF specification
1126::   ::  Goals and functional requirements for inter-autonomous 
             system routing
1125::   ::  Policy requirements for inter Administrative Domain
             routing
1124::   ::  Policy issues in interconnecting networks
1105::  E::  Border Gateway Protocol BGP
1104::   ::  Models of policy based routing
1102::   ::  Policy routing in Internet protocols
1092::   ::  EGP and policy based routing in the new NSFNET backbone
1075::  E::  Distance Vector Multicast Routing Protocol
1074::   ::  NSFNET backbone SPF based Interior Gateway Protocol
1058::  S::  Routing Information Protocol
1009::  H::  Requirements for Internet gateways
 995::   ::  End System to Intermediate System Routing Exchange Protocol for use in conjunction with ISO 8473
 985::   ::  Requirements for Internet gateways - draft
 981::   ::  Experimental multiple-path routing algorithm
 975::   ::  Autonomous confederations
 950::  S::  Internet standard subnetting procedure
 911::   ::  EGP Gateway under Berkeley UNIX 4.2
 904::  H::  Exterior Gateway Protocol formal specification
 898::   ::  Gateway special interest group meeting notes
 890::   ::  Exterior Gateway Protocol implementation schedule
 888::   ::  STUB Exterior Gateway Protocol
 875::   ::  "Gateways, architectures, and heffalumps"
 827::   ::  Exterior Gateway Protocol EGP
 823::  H::  DARPA Internet gateway
=====================================================================

Security

2104::  I::  HMAC
2085:: PS::  HMAC-MD5 IP Authentication with Replay Prevention
2084::  I::  Considerations for Web Transaction Security
2082:: PS::  RIP-2 MD5 Authentication
2078:: PS::  "Generic Security Service Application Program Interface,
             Version 2"
2069:: PS::  An Extension to HTTP
2065:: PS::  Domain Name System Security Extensions
2059::  I::  RADIUS Accounting
2058:: PS::  Remote Authentication Dial In User Service (RADIUS)
2057::  I::  Source directed access control on the Internet.
2040::  I::  "The RC5, RC5-CBC, RC5-CBC-Pad, and RC5-CTS Algorithms"
2025:: PS::  The Simple Public-Key GSS-API Mechanism (SPKM)
2015::   ::  MIME Security with Pretty Good Privacy (PGP)
1984::  I::  IAB and IESG Statement on Cryptographic Technology and
             the Internet
1969::  I::  The PPP DES Encryption Protocol (DESE)
1968:: PS::  The PPP Encryption Control Protocol (ECP)
1964:: PS::  The Kerberos Version 5 GSS-API Mechanism
1961:: PS::  GSS-API Authentication Method for SOCKS Version 5
1949::  E::  Scalable Multicast Key Distribution
1948::  I::  Defending Against Sequence Number Attacks
1938:: PS::  A One-Time Password System
1929:: PS::  Username/Password Authentication for SOCKS V5
1928:: PS::  SOCKS Protocol Version 5
1898::  I::  CyberCash Credit Card Protocol Version 0.8
1858::  I::  Security Considerations for IP Fragment Filtering
1852::  E::  IP Authentication using Keyed SHA
1851::  E::  The ESP Triple DES-CBC Transform
1829:: PS::  The ESP DES-CBC Transform
1828:: PS::  IP Authentication using Keyed MD5
1827:: PS::  IP Encapsulating Security Payload (ESP)
1826:: PS::  IP Authentication Header
1825:: PS::  Security Architecture for the Internet Protocol
1824::  I::  The Exponential Security System TESS
1760::  I::  The S/KEY One-Time Password System
1751::  I::  A Convention for Human-Readable 128-bit Keys
1750::  I::  Randomness Recommendations for Security
1704::  I::  On Internet Authentication
1675::  I::  Security Concerns for IPng
1579::  I::  Firewall-Friendly FTP
1535::  I::  A Security Problem and Proposed Correction With Widely
             Deployed DNS Software
1511::  I::  Common Authentication Technology Overview
1510:: PS::  The Kerberos Network Authentication Service (V5)
1509:: PS::  Generic Security Service API 
1508:: PS::  Generic Security Service Application Program Interface
1507::  E::  DASS - Distributed Authentication Security Service
1492::  I::  "An Access Control Protocol, Sometimes Called TACACS"
1457::  I::  Security Label Framework for the Internet
1455::  E::  Physical Link Security Type of Service
1424:: PS::  Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic Mail
1423:: PS::  "Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic Mail
1422:: PS::  Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic Mail
1421:: PS::  Privacy Enhancement for Internet Electronic Mail
1416::  E::  Telnet Authentication Option
1412::  E::  Telnet Authentication 
1411::  E::  Telnet Authentication
1409::  E::  Telnet Authentication Option
1408::  H::  Telnet Environment Option
1321::  I::  The MD5 Message-Digest Algorithm
1320::  I::  The MD4 Message-Digest Algorithm
1319::  I::  The MD2 Message-Digest Algorithm
1281::  I::  Guidelines for the Secure Operation of the Internet
1244::  I::  Site Security Handbook
1186::  I::  The MD4 Message Digest Algorithm
1170::  I::  Public Key Standards and Licenses
1156::  S::  Management Information Base for Network Management of 
             TCP/IP-based internets
1115::  H::  "Privacy enhancement for Internet electronic mail
1114::  H::  Privacy enhancement for Internet electronic mail
1113::  H::  Privacy enhancement for Internet electronic mail
1108:: PS::  U.S. Department of Defense Security Options for the 
             Internet Protocol
1040::   ::  Privacy enhancement for Internet electronic mail
1038::   ::  Draft revised IP security option
1004::  E::  Distributed-protocol authentication scheme
 989::   ::  Privacy enhancement for Internet electronic mail
 972::   ::  Password Generator Protocol
 931::  E::  Authentication server
 927::   ::  TACACS user identification Telnet option
 912::   ::  Authentication service
 644::   ::  On the problem of signature authentication for
             network mail
=====================================================================
Virtual Terminal

2066::  E::  TELNET CHARSET Option
1647:: PS::  TN3270 Enhancements
1646::  I::  TN3270 Extensions for LUname and Printer Selection
1576::  I::  TN3270 Current Practices
1572:: PS::  Telnet Environment Option
1571::  I::  Telnet Environment Option Interoperability Issues
1372:: PS::  Telnet Remote Flow Control Option
1282::  I::  BSD Rlogin
1258::  I::  BSD Rlogin
1221::   ::  Host Access Protocol (HAP) Specification - Version 2
1205::   ::  5250 Telnet Interface
1184:: DS::  Telnet Linemode Option
1143::   ::  The Q Method of Implementing TELNET Option Negotiation
1116:: PS::  Telnet Linemode option
1097::   ::  Telnet subliminal-message option
1096::   ::  Telnet X display location option
1091::   ::  Telnet terminal-type option
1080::   ::  Telnet remote flow control option
1079::   ::  Telnet terminal speed option
1073::   ::  Telnet window size option
1053::   ::  Telnet X.3 PAD option
1043::   ::  Telnet Data Entry Terminal option
1041::   ::  Telnet 3270 regime option
1013::   ::  "X Window System Protocol, version 11
1005::   ::  ARPANET AHIP-E Host Access Protocol enhanced AHIP
 946::   ::  Telnet terminal location number option
 933::   ::  Output marking Telnet option
 930::   ::  Telnet terminal type option
 929::   ::  Proposed Host-Front End Protocol
 907::  S::  Host Access Protocol specification
 885::   ::  Telnet end of record option
 884::   ::  Telnet terminal type option
 878::   ::  ARPANET 1822L Host Access Protocol
 861::   ::  Telnet extended options
 860::  S::  Telnet timing mark option
 859::  S::  Telnet status option
 858::  S::  Telnet Suppress Go Ahead option
 857::  S::  Telnet echo option
 856::  S::  Telnet binary transmission
 855::  S::  Telnet option specifications 
 854::  S::  Telnet Protocol specification
 851::   ::  ARPANET 1822L Host Access Protocol
 818::  H::  Remote User Telnet service
 802::   ::  ARPANET 1822L Host Access Protocol
 782::   ::  Virtual Terminal management model
 779::   ::  Telnet send-location option
 764::   ::  Telnet Protocol specification
 749::   ::  Telnet SUPDUP-Output option
 748::   ::  Telnet randomly-lose option
 747::   ::  Recent extensions to the SUPDUP Protocol
 746::   ::  SUPDUP graphics extension
 736::   ::  Telnet SUPDUP option
 735::   ::  Revised Telnet byte macro option
 734::  H::  SUPDUP Protocol
 732::   ::  Telnet Data Entry Terminal option
 731::   ::  Telnet Data Entry Terminal option 
 729::   ::  Telnet byte macro option
 728::   ::  Minor pitfall in the Telnet Protocol
 727::   ::  Telnet logout option
 726::   ::  Remote Controlled Transmission and Echoing Telnet option
 721::   ::  Out-of-band control signals in a Host-to-Host Protocol
 719::   ::  Discussion on RCTE
 718::   ::  Comments on RCTE from the Tenex implementation experience
 703::   ::  "July, 1975, survey of New-Protocol Telnet Servers"
 702::   ::  "September, 1974, survey of New-Protocol Telnet servers"
 701::   ::  "August, 1974, survey of New-Protocol Telnet servers"
 698::   ::  Telnet extended ASCII option
 688::   ::  Tentative schedule for the new Telnet implementation for 
             the TIP
 679::   ::  "February, 1975, survey of New-Protocol Telnet servers"
 669::   ::  "November, 1974, survey of New-Protocol Telnet servers"
 659::   ::  Announcing additional Telnet options
 658::   ::  Telnet output linefeed disposition
 657::   ::  Telnet output vertical tab disposition option
 656::   ::  Telnet output vertical tabstops option
 655::   ::  Telnet output formfeed disposition option
 654::   ::  Telnet output horizontal tab disposition option
 653::   ::  Telnet output horizontal tabstops option
 652::   ::  Telnet output carriage-return disposition option
 651::   ::  Revised Telnet status option
 647::   ::  Proposed protocol for connecting host computers to 
             ARPA-like networks via front end processors
 636::   ::  TIP/Tenex reliability improvements
 600::   ::  Interfacing an Illinois plasma terminal to the ARPANET
 596::   ::  Second thoughts on Telnet Go-Ahead
 595::   ::  Second thoughts in defense of the Telnet Go-Ahead
 587::   ::  Announcing new Telnet options
 563::   ::  Comments on the RCTE Telnet option
 562::   ::  Modifications to the Telnet specification
 560::   ::  Remote Controlled Transmission and Echoing Telnet option
 559::   ::  Comments on the new Telnet Protocol and its implementation
 513::   ::  Comments on the new Telnet specifications
 495::   ::  Telnet Protocol specifications
 470::   ::  Change in socket for TIP news facility
 466::   ::  Telnet logger/server for host LL-67
 461::   ::  Telnet Protocol meeting announcement
 447::   ::  IMP/TIP memory retrofit schedule
 435::   ::  Telnet issues
 431::   ::  Update on SMFS login and logout
 399::   ::  SMFS login and logout
 393::   ::  Comments on Telnet Protocol changes
 386::   ::  Letter to TIP users-2
 377::   ::  Using TSO via ARPA Network Virtual Terminal
 365::   ::  Letter to all TIP users
 364::   ::  Serving remote users on the ARPANET
 352::   ::  TIP site information form
 340::   ::  Proposed Telnet changes
 339::   ::  "MLTNET
 328::   ::  Suggested Telnet Protocol changes
 318::   ::  [Ad hoc Telnet Protocol]
 311::   ::  New console attachments to the USCB host
 297::   ::  TIP message buffers
 296::   ::  DS-1 display system
 231::   ::  Service center standards for remote usage
 230::   ::  Toward reliable operation of minicomputer-based 
             terminals on a TIP
 216::   ::  Telnet access to UCSB's On-Line System
 215::   ::  "NCP, ICP, and Telnet
 206::   ::  User Telnet - description of an initial implementation
 205::   ::  NETCRT - a character display protocol
 177::   ::  Device independent graphical display description
 158::   ::  Telnet Protocol
 139::   ::  Discussion of Telnet Protocol
 137::   ::  Telnet Protocol - a proposed document
 110::   ::  Conventions for using an IBM 2741 terminal as a 
             user console for access to network server hosts
  97::   ::  First cut at a proposed Telnet Protocol
=====================================================================
Other
 
2123::  I::  Traffic Flow Measurement
2121::  I::  Issues affecting MARS Cluster Size
2119:: BC::  Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement Levels
2101::  I::  IPv4 Address Behaviour Today
2100::  I::  The Naming of Hosts
2099::  I::  Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 2000-2099
2083::  I::  PNG (Portable Network Graphics) Specification Version 1.0
2071::  I::  Network Renumbering Overview
2050:: BC::  INTERNET REGISTRY IP ALLOCATION GUIDELINES
2036::  I::  Observations on the use of Components of the Class
             A Address Space within the Internet
2031::  I::  IETF-ISOC relationship
2028:: BC::  The Organizations Involved in the IETF Standards Process
2027:: BC::  "IAB and IESG Selection, Confirmation, and Recall Process
2026:: BC::  The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3
2014:: BC::  IRTF Research Group Guidelines and Procedures
2007::  I::  Catalogue of Network Training Materials
2000::  S::  INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS
1999::  I::  Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1900-1999
1988::  I::  Conditional Grant of Rights to Specific Hewlett-Packard 
             Patents In Conjunction With the Internet Engineering
             Task Force's Internet-Standard Network Management
             Framework
1983::  I::  Internet Users' Glossary
1958::  I::  Architectural Principles of the Internet
1952::  I::  GZIP file format specification version 4.3
1951::  I::  DEFLATE Compressed Data Format Specification version 1.3
1950::  I::  ZLIB Compressed Data Format Specification version 3.3
1941::  I::  Frequently Asked Questions for Schools
1935::  I::  "What is the Internet, Anyway?"
1920::  S::  INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS
1900::  I::  Renumbering Needs Work
1899::  I::  Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1800-1899
1882::  I::  The 12-Days of Technology Before Christmas
1880::  S::  INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS
1879::  I::  Class A Subnet Experiment Results and Recommendations
1875::  I::  UNINETT PCA Policy Statements
1871:: BC::  Addendum to RFC 1602 -- Variance Procedure
1855::  I::  Netiquette Guidelines
1822::  I::  A Grant of Rights to Use a Specific IBM patent with
             Photuris
1818::  S::  Best Current Practices
1816::  I::  U.S. Government Internet Domain Names
1814::  I::  Unique Addresses are Good
1811::  I::  U.S. Government Internet Domain Names
1810::  I::  Report on MD5 Performance
1805::  I::  Location-Independent Data/Software Integrity Protocol
1802::  I::  Introducing Project Long Bud
1800::  S::  INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS
1799::  I::  Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1700-1799
1797::  E::  Class A Subnet Experiment
1796::  I::  Not All RFCs are Standards
1790::  I::  "An Agreement between the Internet Society and Sun
             Microsystems, Inc. in the Matter of ONC RPC and
             XDR Protocols"
1780::  S::  INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS
1776::  I::  The Address is the Message
1775::  I::  "To Be ""On"" the Internet"
1758::  I::  NADF Standing Documents
1746::  I::  Ways to Define User Expectations
1739::  I::  A Primer On Internet and TCP/IP Tools
1720::  S::  INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS
1718::  I::  The Tao of IETF - A Guide for New Attendees of the 
             Internet Engineering Task Force
1715::  I::  The H Ratio for Address Assignment Efficiency
1709::  I::  K-12 Internetworking Guidelines
1700::  S::  ASSIGNED NUMBERS
1699::  I::  Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1600-1699
1691::  I::  The Document Architecture for the Cornell Digital Library
1690::  I::  Introducing the Internet Engineering and Planning 
             Group (IEPG)
1689::  I::  A Status Report on Networked Information Retrieval
1640::  I::  The Process for Organization of Internet Standards 
             Working Group (POISED)
1636::  I::  "Report of IAB Workshop on Security in the Internet
             Architecture - February 8-10, 1994"
1635::  I::  How to Use Anonymous FTP
1627::  I::  Network 10 Considered Harmful (Some Practices 
             Shouldn't be Codified)
1610::  S::  INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS
1607::  I::  A VIEW FROM THE 21ST CENTURY
1606::  I::  A Historical Perspective On The Usage Of IP Version 9
1603::  I::  IETF Working Group Guidelines and Procedures
1602::  I::  The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 2
1601::  I::  Charter of the Internet Architecture Board (IAB)
1600::  S::  INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS
1599::  I::  Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1500 - 1599
1597::  I::  Address Allocation for Private Internets
1594::  I::  FYI on Questions and Answer Answers to Commonly 
             asked ``New Internet User'' Questions
1580::  I::  Guide to Network Resource Tools
1578::  I::  FYI on Questions and Answers
1574::  I::  Essential Tools for the OSI Internet
1550::  I::  IP
1543::  I::  Instructions to RFC Authors
1540::  S::  INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS
1539::  I::  The Tao of IETF - A Guide for New Attendees of the
             Internet Engineering Task Force
1527::  I::  What Should We Plan Given the Dilemma of the Network?
1501::  I::  OS/2 User Group
1500::  S::  INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS
1499::  I::  Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1400-1499
1481::  I::  IAB Recommendation for an Intermediate Strategy to
             Address the Issue of Scaling
1467::  I::  Status of CIDR Deployment in the Internet
1463::  I::  FYI on Introducing the Internet--A Short Bibliography 
             of Introductory Internetworking Readings for the 
             Network Novice
1462::  I::  FYI on ``What is the Internet?''
1438::  I::  Internet Engineering Task Force Statements Of
             Boredom (SOBs)
1432::  I::  Recent Internet Books
1417::  I::  NADF Standing Documents
1410::  S::  IAB OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS
1402::  I::  There's Gold in them thar Networks! Searching for
             Treasure in all the Wrong Places
1401::  I::  Correspondence between the IAB and DISA on the use
             of DNS throughout the Internet
1399::  I::  Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1300-1399
1396::  I::  The Process for Organization of Internet Standards
             Working Group (POISED)
1392::  I::  Internet Users' Glossary
1391::  I::  The Tao of IETF
1367::  I::  Schedule for IP Address Space Management Guidelines
1366::  I::  Guidelines for Management of IP Address Space
1360::  S::  IAB OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS
1359::  I::  Connecting to the Internet What Connecting 
             Institutions Should Anticipate
1358::  I::  Charter of the Internet Architecture Board (IAB)
1349:: PS::  Type of Service in the Internet Protocol Suite
1340::  S::  ASSIGNED NUMBERS
1336::  I::  "Who's Who in the Internet Biographies of IAB, 
             IESG and IRSG Members"
1325::  I::  FYI on Questions and Answers Answers to Commonly 
             asked ``New Internet User'' Questions
1324::  I::  A Discussion on Computer Network Conferencing
1311::  I::  Introduction to the STD Notes
1310::  I::  The Internet Standards Process
1300::  I::  Remembrances of Things Past
1299::  I::  Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1200-1299
1297::  I::  NOC Internal Integrated Trouble Ticket System 
             Functional Specification Wishlist 
             (``NOC TT REQUIREMENTS'')
1296::  I::  Internet Growth (1981-1991)
1295::  I::  User Bill of Rights for entries and listings in the 
             Public Directory
1291::  I::  Mid-Level Networks
1290::  I::  There's Gold in them thar Networks! or Searching for
             Treasure in all the Wrong Places
1287::  I::  Towards the Future Internet Architecture
1280::  S::  IAB OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS
1261::  I::  Transition of NIC Services
1259::  I::  Building The Open Road
1251::   ::  "Who's Who in the Internet
1250::  S::  IAB Official Protocol Standards
1249::  I::  DIXIE Protocol Specification
1217::   ::  Memo from the Consortium for Slow Commotion Research (CSCR)
1216::   ::  Gigabit Network Economics and Paradigm Shifts
1208::   ::  A Glossary of Networking Terms
1207::   ::  Answers to Commonly asked ``Experienced Internet User'' 
             Questions
1206::   ::  FYI on Questions and Answers - Answers to Commonly
             asked ``New Internet User'' Questions
1200::  S::  IAB Official Protocol Standards
1199::  I::  Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1100-1199
1198::  I::  FYI on the X Window System
1192::   ::  Commercialization of the Internet Summary Report
1181::   ::  RIPE Terms of Reference
1180::   ::  A TCP/IP Tutorial
1178::   ::  Choosing a Name for Your Computer
1177::   ::  FYI on Questions and Answers - Answers to Commonly 
             Asked ``New Internet User'' Questions
1175::   ::  FYI on Where to Start - A Bibliography of 
             Internetworking Information
1174::  I::  "IAB Recommended Policy on Distributing Internet 
             Identifier Assignment and IAB Recommended Policy Change
             to Internet ""Connected"" Status"
1173::   ::  "Responsibilities of Host and Network Managers 
             Summary of the ""Oral Tradition"" of the Internet"
1169::   ::  Explaining the Role of GOSIP
1167::   ::  Thoughts on the National Research and Education Network
1160::   ::  The Internet Activities Board
1152::   ::  Workshop Report
1150::  I::  F.Y.I. on F.Y.I.
1149::   ::  A Standard for the Transmission of IP Datagrams 
             on Avian Carriers
1147::  I::  FYI on a Network Management Tool Catalog
1140::  S::  IAB Official Protocol Standards
1135::   ::  Helminthiasis of the Internet
1130::  S::  IAB official protocol standards
1127::   ::  Perspective on the Host Requirements RFCs
1121::   ::  Act one - the poems
1120::   ::  Internet Activities Board
1118::   ::  Hitchhikers guide to the Internet
1117::   ::  Internet numbers
1111::   ::  Request for comments on Request for Comments
1100::  S::  IAB official protocol standards
1099::  I::  Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1000-1099
1093::   ::  NSFNET routing architecture
1087::   ::  Ethics and the Internet
1083::  S::  IAB official protocol standards
1077::   ::  Critical issues in high bandwidth networking
1076::   ::  HEMS monitoring and control language
1060::  S::  ASSIGNED NUMBERS
1039::   ::  DoD statement on Open Systems Interconnection protocols
1020::   ::  Internet numbers
1019::   ::  Report of the Workshop on Environments for 
             Computational Mathematics
1018::   ::  Some comments on SQuID
1017::   ::  Network requirements for scientific research
1015::   ::  Implementation plan for interagency research Internet
1014::   ::  XDR
1000::   ::  Request For Comments reference guide
 999::   ::  Requests For Comments summary notes
 997::   ::  Internet numbers
 992::   ::  On communication support for fault tolerant process groups
 991::  S::  Official ARPA-Internet protocols
 990::   ::  Assigned numbers
 980::   ::  Protocol document order information
 979::   ::  PSN End-to-End functional specification
 968::   ::  Twas the night before start-up
 967::   ::  All victims together
 961::  S::  Official ARPA-Internet protocols
 960::   ::  Assigned numbers
 945::   ::  DoD statement on the NRC report
 944::  S::  Official ARPA-Internet protocols
 943::   ::  Assigned numbers
 939::   ::  Executive summary of the NRC report on transport 
             protocols for Department of Defense data networks
 938::  E::  Internet Reliable Transaction Protocol functional
             and interface specification
 928::   ::  Introduction to proposed DoD standard H-FP
 923::   ::  Assigned numbers
 909::  E::  Loader Debugger Protocol
 908::  E::  Reliable Data Protocol
 902::   ::  ARPA Internet Protocol policy
 901::  S::  Official ARPA-Internet protocols
 900::   ::  Assigned Numbers
 899::   ::  Request For Comments summary notes
 880::  S::  Official protocols
 873::   ::  Illusion of vendor support
 870::   ::  Assigned numbers
 869::  H::  Host Monitoring Protocol
 852::   ::  ARPANET short blocking feature
 847::   ::  Summary of Smallberg surveys
 846::   ::  Who talks TCP? - survey of 22 February 1983
 845::   ::  Who talks TCP? - survey of 15 February 1983
 844::   ::  "Who talks ICMP, too? - Survey of 18 February 1983"
 843::   ::  Who talks TCP? - survey of 8 February 83
 842::   ::  Who talks TCP? - survey of 1 February 83
 840::  S::  Official protocols
 839::   ::  Who talks TCP?
 838::   ::  Who talks TCP?
 837::   ::  Who talks TCP?
 836::   ::  Who talks TCP?
 835::   ::  Who talks TCP?
 834::   ::  Who talks TCP?
 833::   ::  Who talks TCP?
 832::   ::  Who talks TCP?
 831::   ::  Backup access to the European side of SATNET
 828::   ::  "Data communications
 825::   ::  Request for comments on Requests For Comments
 820::   ::  Assigned numbers
 817::   ::  Modularity and efficiency in protocol implementation
 816::   ::  Fault isolation and recovery
 806::   ::  Proposed Federal Information Processing Standard
 800::   ::  Request For Comments summary notes 
 794::   ::  Pre-emption
 790::   ::  Assigned numbers
 776::   ::  Assigned numbers
 774::   ::  Internet Protocol Handbook
 770::   ::  Assigned numbers
 766::   ::  Internet Protocol Handbook
 762::   ::  Assigned numbers
 758::   ::  Assigned numbers
 755::   ::  Assigned numbers
 750::   ::  Assigned numbers
 745::   ::  JANUS interface specifications
 739::   ::  Assigned numbers
 717::   ::  Assigned network numbers
 716::   ::  Interim revision to Appendix F of BBN 1822
 708::   ::  Elements of a distributed programming system
 705::   ::  Front-end Protocol B6700 version
 700::   ::  Protocol experiment
 699::   ::  Request For Comments summary notes
 694::   ::  Protocol information
 686::   ::  Leaving well enough alone
 684::   ::  Commentary on procedure calling as a network protocol
 681::   ::  Network UNIX
 678::   ::  Standard file formats
 677::   ::  Maintenance of duplicate databases
 672::   ::  Multi-site data collection facility
 671::   ::  Note on Reconnection Protocol
 667::   ::  BBN host ports
 666::   ::  Specification of the Unified User-Level Protocol
 663::   ::  Lost message detection and recovery protocol 
 661::   ::  Protocol information
 645::   ::  Network Standard Data Specification syntax
 643::   ::  Network Debugging Protocol
 642::   ::  Ready line philosophy and implementation
 638::   ::  IMP/TIP preventive maintenance schedule
 637::   ::  Change of network address for SU-DSL
 635::   ::  Assessment of ARPANET protocols
 634::   ::  Change in network address for Haskins Lab
 631::   ::  International meeting on minicomputers and data 
             communication
 629::   ::  Scenario for using the Network Journal
 628::   ::  Status of RFC numbers and a note on pre-assigned 
             journal numbers 
 621::   ::  NIC user directories at SRI ARC
 617::   ::  Note on socket number assignment
 609::   ::  Statement of upcoming move of NIC/NLS service
 604::   ::  Assigned link numbers
 603::   ::  Response to RFC 597
 602::   ::  The stockings were hung by the chimney with care
 598::   ::  "RFC index - December 5, 1973"
 597::   ::  Host status
 590::   ::  MULTICS address change
 588::   ::  London node is now up
 585::   ::  ARPANET users interest working group meeting
 584::   ::  Charter for ARPANET Users Interest Working Group
 582::   ::  Comments on RFC 580
 581::   ::  Corrections to RFC 560
 580::   ::  Note to protocol designers and implementers
 578::   ::  Using MIT-Mathlab MACSYMA from MIT-DMS Muddle
 569::  H::  NETED
 552::   ::  Single access to standard protocols
 547::   ::  Change to the Very Distant Host specification
 544::   ::  Locating on-line documentation at SRI-ARC
 537::   ::  Announcement of NGG meeting July 16-17
 530::   ::  Report on the Survey project
 529::   ::  Note on protocol synch sequences
 527::   ::  ARPAWOCKY
 526::   ::  Technical meeting
 523::   ::  SURVEY is in operation again
 519::   ::  Resource evaluation
 518::   ::  ARPANET accounts
 515::   ::  Specifications for datalanguage
 503::   ::  Socket number list
 496::   ::  TNLS quick reference card is available
 494::   ::  Availability of MIX and MIXAL in the Network
 492::   ::  Response to RFC 467
 491::   ::  "What is ""Free""?"
 483::   ::  Cancellation of the resource notebook framework meeting
 474::   ::  Announcement of NGWG meeting
 464::   ::  Resource notebook framework
 462::   ::  Responding to user needs
 457::   ::  TIPUG
 456::   ::  Memorandum
 441::   ::  Inter-Entity Communication - an experiment
 440::   ::  Scheduled network software maintenance
 439::   ::  PARRY encounters the DOCTOR
 433::   ::  Socket number list
 432::   ::  Network logical map
 425::   ::  But my NCP costs $500 a day
 419::   ::  To
 405::   ::  Correction to RFC 404
 404::   ::  Host address changes involving Rand and ISI
 403::   ::  Desirability of a network 1108 service
 402::   ::  ARPA Network mailing lists
 401::   ::  Conversion of NGP-0 coordinates to device specific
             coordinates 
 390::   ::  TSO scenario 
 379::   ::  Using TSO at  CCN
 376::   ::  Network host status
 372::   ::  Notes on a conversation with Bob Kahn on the ICCC
 371::   ::  Demonstration at International Computer Communications
             Conference
 370::   ::  Network host status
 363::   ::  ARPA Network mailing lists 
 356::   ::  ARPA Network Control Center
 355::   ::  Response to NWG/RFC 346 
 350::   ::  User accounts for UCSB On-Line System
 349::   ::  Proposed standard socket numbers
 345::   ::  Interest in mixed integer programming MPSX on NIC 
             360/91 at CCN
 334::   ::  Network use on May 8
 331::   ::  IMP System change notification
 330::   ::  Network host status
 329::   ::  ARPA Network mailing lists
 327::   ::  Data and File Transfer workshop notes
 322::   ::  Well known socket numbers
 321::   ::  CBI networking activity at MITRE
 320::   ::  Workshop on hard copy line printers
 319::   ::  Network host status
 317::   ::  Official Host-Host Protocol modification
 316::   ::  ARPA Network Data Management Working Group
 315::   ::  Network host status
 313::   ::  Computer based instruction
 305::   ::  Unknown host numbers
 303::   ::  ARPA Network mailing lists
 295::   ::  "Report of the Protocol Workshop, 12 October 1971"
 291::   ::  Data management meeting announcement
 290::   ::  Computer networks and data sharing
 282::   ::  Graphics meeting report
 276::   ::  NIC course
 270::   ::  Correction to BBN Report No. 1822 NIC NO 7958
 269::   ::  Some experience with file transfer
 263::   ::  Very Distant Host interface
 256::   ::  IMPSYS change notification
 254::   ::  Scenarios for using ARPANET computers
 253::   ::  Second Network Graphics meeting details
 249::   ::  Coordination of equipment and supplies purchase
 246::   ::  Network Graphics meeting
 245::   ::  Reservations for Network Group meeting
 243::   ::  Network and data sharing bibliography
 242::   ::  Data descriptive language for shared data
 240::   ::  Site status
 239::   ::  Host mnemonics proposed in RFC 226 NIC 7625
 235::   ::  Site status
 234::   ::  Network Working Group meeting schedule
 232::   ::  Postponement of network graphics meeting
 228::   ::  Clarification
 225::   ::  Rand/UCSB network graphics experiment
 223::   ::  Network Information Center schedule for network users
 219::   ::  User's view of the datacomputer
 218::   ::  Changing the IMP status reporting facility
 214::   ::  Network checkpoint
 213::   ::  IMP System change notification
 211::   ::  ARPA Network mailing lists
 209::   ::  Host/IMP interface documentation
 208::   ::  Address tables
 207::   ::  September Network Working Group meeting
 204::   ::  Sockets in use
 200::   ::  RFC list by number
 198::   ::  Site certification - Lincoln Labs 360/67
 195::   ::  Data computers-data descriptions and access language
 194::   ::  Data Reconfiguration Service - compiler/interpreter
             implementation notes
 187::   ::  Network/440 protocol concept
 186::   ::  Network graphics loader
 185::   ::  NIC distribution of manuals and handbooks
 182::   ::  Compilation of list of relevant site reports
 180::   ::  File system questionnaire
 179::   ::  Link number assignments
 173::   ::  Network data management committee meeting announcement
 171::   ::  Data Transfer Protocol
 170::   ::  RFC list by number
 169::   ::  Computer networks
 168::   ::  ARPA Network mailing lists
 167::   ::  Socket conventions reconsidered
 164::   ::  "Minutes of Network Working Group meeting, 5/16
             through 5/19/71 "
 162::   ::  NETBUGGER3
 160::   ::  RFC brief list
 157::   ::  Invitation to the Second Symposium on Problems in the  
             Optimization of Data Communications Systems
 155::   ::  ARPA Network mailing lists
 154::   ::  Exposition style
 149::   ::  Best laid plans
 148::   ::  Comments on RFC 123
 147::   ::  Definition of a socket
 140::   ::  Agenda for the May NWG meeting
 138::   ::  Status report on proposed Data Reconfiguration Service
 136::   ::  Host accounting and administrative procedures
 135::   ::  Response to NWG/RFC 110
 132::   ::  Typographical error in RFC 107
 131::   ::  Response to RFC 116
 130::   ::  Response to RFC 111
 129::   ::  Request for comments on socket name structure
 126::   ::  Graphics facilities at Ames Research Center
 124::   ::  Typographical error in RFC 107
 121::   ::  Network on-line operators
 120::   ::  Network PL1 subprograms
 119::   ::  Network Fortran subprograms
 118::   ::  Recommendations for facility documentation
 117::   ::  Some comments on the official protocol
 116::   ::  Structure of the May NWG meeting
 115::   ::  Some Network Information Center policies on handling
             documents 
 113::   ::  Network activity report
 112::   ::  User/Server Site Protocol
 111::   ::  Pressure from the chairman
 109::   ::  Level III Server Protocol for the Lincoln Laboratory 
             NIC 360/67 Host
 108::   ::  "Attendance list at the Urbana NWG meeting, February 
             17-19,1971 "
 107::   ::  Output of the Host-Host Protocol glitch cleaning committee
 106::   ::  User/Server Site Protocol network host questionnaire
 104::   ::  Link 191
 103::   ::  Implementation of interrupt keys
 102::   ::  Output of the Host-Host Protocol glitch cleaning committee
 101::   ::  "Notes on the Network Working Group meeting, 
             Urbana, Illinois, February 17, 1971"
 100::   ::  Categorization and guide to NWG/RFCs
  99::   ::  Network meeting
  95::   ::  Distribution of NWG/RFC's through the NIC
  90::   ::  CCN as a network service center
  89::   ::  Some historic moments in networking
  87::   ::  Topic for discussion at the next Network Working Group 
             meeting 
  85::   ::  Network Working Group meeting
  84::   ::  List of NWG/RFC's 1-80
  82::   ::  Network meeting notes
  81::   ::  Request for reference information
  78::   ::  NCP status report
  77::   ::  Network meeting report
  76::   ::  Connection by name
  75::   ::  Network meeting
  74::   ::  Specifications for network use of the UCSB On-Line System
  73::   ::  Response to NWG/RFC 67
  72::   ::  Proposed moratorium on changes to network protocol
  71::   ::  Reallocation in case of input error
  69::   ::  Distribution list change for MIT
  68::   ::  "Comments on memory allocation control commands
  66::  ::  NIC - third level ideas and other noise
  64::   ::  Getting rid of marking
  63::   ::  Belated network meeting report
  61::   ::  Note on interprocess communication in a resource 
             sharing computer network
  57::   ::  Thoughts and reflections on NWG/RFC 54
  52::   ::  Updated distribution list
  51::   ::  Proposal for a Network Interchange Language
  50::   ::  Comments on the Meyer proposal
  49::   ::  Conversations with S. Crocker UCLA
  48::   ::  Possible protocol plateau
  47::   ::  BBN's comments on NWG/RFC #33
  46::   ::  ARPA Network protocol notes
  45::   ::  New protocol is coming
  44::   ::  Comments on NWG/RFC 33 and 36
  43::   ::  Proposed meeting [LIL]
  40::   ::  More comments on the forthcoming protocol
  39::   ::  Comments on protocol re
  37::   ::  "Network meeting epilogue, etc"
  36::   ::  Protocol notes
  35::   ::  Network meeting
  34::   ::  Some brief preliminary notes on the Augmentation 
             Research Center clock
  31::   ::  Binary message forms in computer 
  30::   ::  Documentation conventions 
  27::   ::  Documentation conventions
  25::   ::  No high link numbers
  24::   ::  Documentation conventions
  21::   ::  Network meeting
  16::   ::  M.I.T
  15::   ::  Network subsystem for time sharing hosts
  13::   ::  [Referring to NWG/RFC 11]
  11::   ::  Implementation of the Host-Host software procedures 
             in GORDO
  10::   ::  Documentation conventions
   9::   ::  Host software
   8::   ::  Functional specifications for the ARPA Network
   7::   ::  Host-IMP interface
   6::   ::  Conversation with Bob Kahn
   5::   ::  Decode Encode Language
   4::   ::  Network timetable
   3::   ::  Documentation conventions
   2::   ::  Host software
   1::   ::  Host software


Appendix B:  Automatic Script to Implement Methodology

#!/usr/bin/perl

# Program to read text files (such as RFCs and Internet Drafts) and
#    output items that might relate to year 2000 issues, particularly
#    2-digit years.

# Version 1.0. By Paul Hoffman (phoffman@imc.org). This is a
#    quick-and-dirty hack and could be written more elegantly and
#    more efficiently. There is a known bug in the line number
#    reporting, and there are probably other bugs as well.
#    Use this code at your own risk. This code may be freely
#    redistributed.

# Some people like using disk files, others like STDIN and STDOUT.
#    This program accomodates both types. 'file' means input comes
#    from the first argument on the command line, output goes to that
#    filename with a ".out" extension; 'std' means STDIN and STDOUT.

$UsageType = 'file';  # Should be 'file' or 'std'
@CheckWords = qw(UTCTime two-digit 2-digit 2digit century 1900 2000);
# You might want to add "year yyyy" to this list, but then a 
# large proportion of the RFCs and drafts get selected

if($UsageType eq 'file') {
	if($ARGV[0] eq '')
		{ die "You must specify the name of the file to open.\n" }
	$InName = $ARGV[0];
	unless(-r $InName) { die "Could not read $InName.\n" }
	open(IN, $InName) or die "Could not open $InName.\n";
	$OutName = "$InName.out";
	open(OUT, ">$OutName") or die "Could not write to $OutName.\n";
	$OutStuff = '';  # Holder for what we're going to print out
} else {  # Do STDIN and STDOUT
	open(IN, "-"); open(OUT, ">-");
}

# Read the whole file into an array. This is a tad wasteful of memory
#    but makes the output easier.
@All = ();
while(<IN>) { push(@All, $_) }
$LastLine = $#All;

# Process the instance of "yy" not followed by "yy"
for($i = 0; $i <= $LastLine; $i += 1 ) {
	next unless(grep(/yy/i, $All[$i]));
	next if(grep(/yyyy/i, $All[$i]));
	&PrintFive($i, "'yy' on a line without 'yyyy'");
}

# Next do the words that should cause extra concern
foreach $Word (@CheckWords) {
	for($i = 0; $i <= $LastLine; $i += 1 ) {
		next unless(grep(/$Word/i, $All[$i]));
		&PrintFive($i, "$Word");
	}
}

# All done. If writing to a file, and nothing got written, delete the
#    file so that you can quickly scan for the ".out" files.
if($UsageType eq 'file') {
	if(length($OutStuff) > 0) {
		$OutStuff = "+=+=+=+=+= File $InName +=+=+=+=+= \n
               $OutStuff\n";
		print OUT $OutStuff; close(OUT);
	} else {  # Nothing to put in the .out
		close(OUT);
		unlink($OutName) or die "Couldn't unlink $OutName\n";
	}
}
exit;

sub PrintFive {
	my $Where = shift(@_); my $Msg = shift(@_);
	my ($WhereRealLine, $Start, $End, $j);

	$WhereRealLine = $Where + 1;
	$OutStuff .= "$Msg found at line $WhereRealLine:\n";
	$Start = $Where - 2; $End = $Where + 2;
	if($Where < 2) { $Start = 0 }
	if($Where > $LastLine - 2) { $End = $LastLine }
	for($j = $Start; $j <= $End; $j += 1) { $OutStuff .= "$j:  "
         . @All[$j] }
	$OutStuff .= "\n";
}


Appendix C:  Output of the script in Appendix B on all RFC's from 1 
             through 2134

+=+=+=+=+= File rfc90.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 71:
68:                           consoles);
69:  
70:                        j) Six data communication ports (3 dial @ 2000 baud,
71:                           1 dedicated @ 4800 baud, and 2 dedicated @ 50,000
72:                           baud) for remote batch entry terminals;


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc230.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 92:
89:  as for conventional synchronous block communication, since start and
90:  stop bits for each character would need to be transmitted. This loss
91:  is not substantial and does occur now for 2000 bps TIP-terminal
92:  communication.
93:  

2000 found at line 134:
131:  92 transmitting sites in the U.S. and Canada were used with standard
132:  Bell System Dataphone datasets used at both ends.  At both 1200 and
133:  2000 bps, approximately 82% of the calls had error rates of 1 error in
134:  10^5 bits or better, assuming an equal number of short, medium, and
135:  long hauls.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc241.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 32:
29:     justifiable on the basis that the IMP and Host computers were
30:     expected to be either in the same room (up to 30 feet of cable) or,
31:     via the Distant Host option, within 2000 feet on well- controlled,
32:     shielded cables.  A connection through common carrier facilities is
33:     not comparably free of errors.  Usage of common- carrier lines for


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc263.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 22:
19:  of the occasional desire to interface a Host to some IMP via a
20:  long-distance connection (where long-distance, in this context,
21:  is any cable run longer than 2000 feet but may typically be tens
22:  of miles) via either a hard-wire or telephone circuit.  We believe
23:  that any good solution to the general problem of interfacing Hosts


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc662.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 143:
140:  by a rather short cable (approximately 100 feet long.) The CISL Multics is
141:  connected to the IMP number 6 (port 0) by an approximately l5OO feet long cable.
142:  8oth IMPs are in close physical proximity (approximately 2000 feet,) and are
143:  connected to each other by a 5O kilobits per second line. The results given
144:  above show considerable improvement in the performance with the new IMP DIM.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc713.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 830:
827:  succeeding bytes in the stream used to encode the object.
828:  
829:  A data object requiring 20000 (47040 octal) bytes would
830:  appear in the stream as follows.
831:  

2000 found at line 837:
834:  10000010 -- specifying that the next 2 bytes
835:  contain the stream length
836:  01001110 -- first byte of number 20000
837:  00100000 -- second byte
838:  .

2000 found at line 845:
842:  .
843:  
844:  Interpretation of the contents of the 20000 bytes in
845:  the stream can be performed by a module which knows the
846:  specific format of the non-atomic type specified by DEFGH in


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc724.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2-digit found at line 1046:
1043:                                                  <4-digit-year>
1044:           <slash-date>      ::=   <numeric-month> "/" <date-of-month>
1045:                                                   "/" <2-digit-year>
1046:           <numeric-month>   ::=   <one or two decimal digits>
1047:           <day-of-month>    ::=   <one or two decimal digits>

2-digit found at line 1062:
1059:                                 | "December" | "Dec"
1060:           <4-digit-year>    ::=   <four decimal digits>
1061:           <2-digit-year>    ::=   <two decimal digits>
1062:           <time>            ::=   <24-hour-time> "-" <time-zone>
1063:           <24-hour-time>    ::=   <hour> <minute>

2-digit found at line 1675:
1672:       A.  ALPHABETICAL LISTING OF SYNTAX RULES
1673:  
1674:       <2-digit-year>    ::=   <two decimal digits>
1675:       <4-digit-year>    ::=   <four decimal digits>
1676:       <24-hour-time>    ::=   <hour> <minute>

2-digit found at line 1829:
1826:  
1827:       <slash-date>      ::=   <numeric-month> "/" <date-of-month>
1828:                                               "/" <2-digit-year>
1829:       <space>           ::=   <TELNET ASCII space (decimal 32)>
1830:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc731.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1571:
1568:             RFC 728, 1977.
1569:  
1570:       9.  Hazeltine 2000 Desk Top Display Operating Instructions.
1571:             Hazeltine IB-1866A, 1870.
1572:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc732.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1681:
1678:         1977.
1679:  
1680:    9.   Hazeltine 2000 Desk Top Display Operating Instructions. Hazeltine
1681:         IB-1866A, 1870.
1682:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc733.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2-digit found at line 333:
330:  
331:  "<n>(element)" is  equivalent  to  "<n>*<n>(element)";  that  is,
332:  exactly  <n>  occurrences of (element).  Thus 2DIGIT is a 2-digit
333:  number, and 3ALPHA is a string of three alphabetic characters.
334:  

2digit found at line 333:
330:  
331:  "<n>(element)" is  equivalent  to  "<n>*<n>(element)";  that  is,
332:  exactly  <n>  occurrences of (element).  Thus 2DIGIT is a 2-digit
333:  number, and 3ALPHA is a string of three alphabetic characters.
334:  

2digit found at line 947:
944:              /  "Sunday"    / "Sun"
945:  
946:  date        =  1*2DIGIT ["-"] month         ; day month year
947:                 ["-"] (2DIGIT /4DIGIT)       ;  e.g. 20 Aug [19]77
948:  

2digit found at line 948:
945:  
946:  date        =  1*2DIGIT ["-"] month         ; day month year
947:                 ["-"] (2DIGIT /4DIGIT)       ;  e.g. 20 Aug [19]77
948:  
949:  month       =  "January"   / "Jan"  / "February"  / "Feb"

2digit found at line 967:
964:                                              ;  (seconds optional)
965:  
966:  hour        =  2DIGIT [":"] 2DIGIT [ [":"] 2DIGIT ]
967:                                              ; 0000[00] - 2359[59]
968:  

2digit found at line 1718:
1715:  CTL         =  <any TELNET ASCII control character and DEL>
1716:  
1717:  date        =  1*2DIGIT ["-"] month ["-"] (2DIGIT /4DIGIT)
1718:  date-field  =  "Date"       ":" date-time
1719:  date-time   =  [ day-of-week "," ] date time

2digit found at line 1754:
1751:  host-indicator =  1*( ("at" / "@") node )
1752:  host-phrase =  phrase  host-indicator
1753:  hour        =  2DIGIT [":"] 2DIGIT [ [":"] 2DIGIT ]
1754:  HTAB        =  <TELNET ASCII horizontal-tab>
1755:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc734.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 184:
181:  Bit name	Value		Meaning
182:  
183:  %TOALT		200000,,0	characters  175  and 176  are converted to
184:  				altmode (033) on input.
185:  

2000 found at line 264:
261:  				 NORMALLY OFF.
262:  
263:  %TOSA1		  2000,,0	characters  001-037  should  be  displayed
264:  				using  the  Stanford/ITS  extended   ASCII
265:  				graphics character set instead of  uparrow

2000 found at line 354:
351:  %TXTOP	4000	This character has the [TOP] key depressed.
352:  
353:  %TXSFL	2000	Reserved, must be zero.
354:  
355:  %TXSFT	1000	Reserved, must be zero.

2000 found at line 634:
631:  Value	Key
632:  
633:   2000	Reserved
634:   1000	Reserved
635:   0400	<META>


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc738.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 41:
38:  without sending anything.
39:  
40:  The time is the number of seconds since 0000 (midnight) 1 January 1900
41:  GMT, such that the time 1 is 12:00:01 am on 1 January 1900 GMT; this
42:  base will serve until the year 2036.  As a further example, the most

1900 found at line 42:
39:  
40:  The time is the number of seconds since 0000 (midnight) 1 January 1900
41:  GMT, such that the time 1 is 12:00:01 am on 1 January 1900 GMT; this
42:  base will serve until the year 2036.  As a further example, the most
43:  recent leap year as of this writing began from the time 2,398,291,200


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc745.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 562:
559:  Circuits, EIA standard RS-422," April 1975; Engineering Dept.,
560:  Electronic Industries Assn., 2001 Eye St., N.W., Washington, D.C.,
561:  20006.
562:  
563:  REA bulletin 345-67, Rural Electrification Admin., U.S. Dept. of


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc746.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 341:
338:           %TDGRF                 ;Enter graphics.
339:           %GOCLR                 ;Clear the screen.
340:           %GOMVA xx yy           ;Set cursor.
341:           %GODLA xx yy           ;Draw line from there.
342:           << repeat last two commands for each line >>

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 342:
339:           %GOCLR                 ;Clear the screen.
340:           %GOMVA xx yy           ;Set cursor.
341:           %GODLA xx yy           ;Draw line from there.
342:           << repeat last two commands for each line >>
343:           %TDNOP                 ;Exit graphics.

2000 found at line 859:
856:  %TRGIN  0,,400000  terminal can provide graphics input.
857:  
858:  %TRGHC  0,,200000  terminal has a hard-copy device to which output can
859:                     be diverted.
860:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc752.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 218:
215:  word 4          The name of the site in SIXBIT.
216:  word 5          The user name who compiled the file, usually in SIXBIT.
217:  word 6          Date of compilation as SIXBIT YYMMDD.
218:  word 7          Time of compilation as SIXBIT HHMMSS.
219:  word 8          Address in file of NAME table.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc754.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 76:
73:  
74:  Messages are transmitted as a character string to an address which is
75:  specified "outside" the message.  The destination host ("YYY") is
76:  specified to the sending (or user) FTP as the argument of the "open
77:  connection" command, and the destination user ("XXX") is specified to

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 81:
78:  the receiving (or server) FTP as the argument of the "MAIL" (or "MLFL")
79:  command.  In Tenex, when mail is queued this outside information is
80:  saved in the file name ("[---].XXX@YYY").
81:  
82:  The proposed solutions are briefly characterized.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 239:
236:  
237:  
238:     "[---].XXX@YYY", not anything from the header.  Only the string "XXX"
239:     is passed to the FTP server.
240:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc759.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
two-digit found at line 1414:
1411:        yyyy-mm-dd-hh:mm:ss,fff+hh:mm
1412:  
1413:      Where yyyy is the four-digit year, mm is the two-digit month, dd is
1414:      the two-digit day, hh is the two-digit hour in 24 hour time, mm is
1415:      the two-digit minute, ss is the two-digit second, and fff is the

two-digit found at line 1415:
1412:  
1413:      Where yyyy is the four-digit year, mm is the two-digit month, dd is
1414:      the two-digit day, hh is the two-digit hour in 24 hour time, mm is
1415:      the two-digit minute, ss is the two-digit second, and fff is the
1416:      decimal fraction of the second.  To this basic date and time is

two-digit found at line 1416:
1413:      Where yyyy is the four-digit year, mm is the two-digit month, dd is
1414:      the two-digit day, hh is the two-digit hour in 24 hour time, mm is
1415:      the two-digit minute, ss is the two-digit second, and fff is the
1416:      decimal fraction of the second.  To this basic date and time is
1417:      appended the offset from Greenwich as plus or minus hh hours and mm


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc767.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
two-digit found at line 710:
707:        yyyy-mm-dd-hh:mm:ss,fff+hh:mm
708:  
709:      Where yyyy is the four-digit year, mm is the two-digit month, dd is
710:      the two-digit day, hh is the two-digit hour in 24 hour time, mm is
711:      the two-digit minute, ss is the two-digit second, and fff is the

two-digit found at line 711:
708:  
709:      Where yyyy is the four-digit year, mm is the two-digit month, dd is
710:      the two-digit day, hh is the two-digit hour in 24 hour time, mm is
711:      the two-digit minute, ss is the two-digit second, and fff is the
712:      decimal fraction of the second.  To this basic date and time is

two-digit found at line 712:
709:      Where yyyy is the four-digit year, mm is the two-digit month, dd is
710:      the two-digit day, hh is the two-digit hour in 24 hour time, mm is
711:      the two-digit minute, ss is the two-digit second, and fff is the
712:      decimal fraction of the second.  To this basic date and time is
713:      appended the offset from Greenwich as plus or minus hh hours and mm


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc786.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 71:
68:  
69:           The date-time will be in the default TOPS20 ODTIM format
70:           "dd-mmm-yy hh:mm:ss" (24 hour time).
71:  
72:        The files will named "arbitrary.NIMAIL.-1", where "arbitrary" will


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc788.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1592:
1589:              <daytime> ::= "at" <SP> <date> <SP> <time>
1590:  
1591:              <date> ::= <dd> "-" <mon> "-" <yy>
1592:  
1593:              <time> ::= <hh> ":" <mm> ":" <ss> "-" <zone>

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1602:
1599:                        "JUL" | "AUG" | "SEP" | "OCT" | "NOV" | "DEC"
1600:  
1601:              <yy> ::= the two decimal integer year of the century in the
1602:                        range 01 to 99.
1603:  

century found at line 1602:
1599:                        "JUL" | "AUG" | "SEP" | "OCT" | "NOV" | "DEC"
1600:  
1601:              <yy> ::= the two decimal integer year of the century in the
1602:                        range 01 to 99.
1603:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc809.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 3349:
3346:  
3347:        #define WID     0000000   /* Write Image Data */
3348:        #define WGD     0020000   /* Write Graphic Data */
3349:        #define WAC     0022000   /* Write AlphanumCh */
3350:  

2000 found at line 3350:
3347:        #define WID     0000000   /* Write Image Data */
3348:        #define WGD     0020000   /* Write Graphic Data */
3349:        #define WAC     0022000   /* Write AlphanumCh */
3350:  
3351:        #define LWM     0024000   /* Load Write Mode */

2000 found at line 3379:
3376:  
3377:        #define ERS     0030000   /* Erase */
3378:        #define ERL     0032000   /* Erase Line */
3379:        #define SLU     0034000   /* Special Location Update */
3380:        #define   SCRL_ZAP 0100   /* unlimited scroll speed */

2000 found at line 3392:
3389:        #define LLB     0070000   /* Load Lb */
3390:        #define LLC     0074000   /* Load Lc */
3391:        #define   LGW     02000   /* perform write */
3392:  
3393:        #define NOP     0110000   /* No-Operation */

2000 found at line 3396:
3393:        #define NOP     0110000   /* No-Operation */
3394:  
3395:        #define SPD     0120000   /* Select Special Device */
3396:        #define LPA     0130000   /* Load Peripheral Address */
3397:        #define LPR     0140000   /* Load Peripheral Register */

2000 found at line 3405:
3402:        #define   ALPHA   06000   /* LPR - Alphanumeric data */
3403:        #define   GRAPH   04000   /* LPR - Graphic data */
3404:        #define   IMAGE   02000   /* LPR - Image data */
3405:        #define   LTHENH  01000   /* take lo byte then hi byte */
3406:        #define   DROPBYTE 0400   /* drop last byte */

2000 found at line 3408:
3405:        #define   LTHENH  01000   /* take lo byte then hi byte */
3406:        #define   DROPBYTE 0400   /* drop last byte */
3407:        #define INTERR    02000   /* SPD - Interrupt Enable */
3408:        #define TEST      04000   /* SPD - Diagnostic Test */
3409:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc810.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 146:
143:     , (comma)          is used as a data element delimiter
144:  
145:     XXX/YYY            indicates protocol information of the type
146:                        TRANSPORT/SERVICE.
147:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc820.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 674:
671:        014.000.000.001   311031700035 00     PURDUE-TN              [CXK]
672:        014.000.000.002   311060800027 00     UWISC-TN               [CXK]
673:        014.000.000.003   311030200024 00     UDEL-TN                [CXK]
674:        014.000.000.004   234219200149 23     UCL-VTEST               [PK]
675:        014.000.000.005   234219200300 23     UCL-TG                  [PK]


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc821.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1944:
1941:              <daytime> ::= <SP> <date> <SP> <time>
1942:  
1943:              <date> ::= <dd> <SP> <mon> <SP> <yy>
1944:  
1945:              <time> ::= <hh> ":" <mm> ":" <ss> <SP> <zone>

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1954:
1951:                        "JUL" | "AUG" | "SEP" | "OCT" | "NOV" | "DEC"
1952:  
1953:              <yy> ::= the two decimal integer year of the century in the
1954:                        range 00 to 99.
1955:  

century found at line 1954:
1951:                        "JUL" | "AUG" | "SEP" | "OCT" | "NOV" | "DEC"
1952:  
1953:              <yy> ::= the two decimal integer year of the century in the
1954:                        range 00 to 99.
1955:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc822.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1635:
1632:       5.1.  SYNTAX
1633:  
1634:       date-time   =  [ day "," ] date time        ; dd mm yy
1635:                                                   ;  hh:mm:ss zzz
1636:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2701:
2698:       dates       =   orig-date                   ; Original
2699:                     [ resent-date ]               ; Forwarded
2700:       date-time   =  [ day "," ] date time        ; dd mm yy
2701:                                                   ;  hh:mm:ss zzz
2702:       day         =  "Mon"  / "Tue" /  "Wed"  / "Thu"

2-digit found at line 344:
341:  
342:            "<n>(element)" is equivalent to "<n>*<n>(element)"; that is,
343:       exactly  <n>  occurrences  of (element). Thus 2DIGIT is a 2-digit
344:       number, and 3ALPHA is a string of three alphabetic characters.
345:  

2digit found at line 344:
341:  
342:            "<n>(element)" is equivalent to "<n>*<n>(element)"; that is,
343:       exactly  <n>  occurrences  of (element). Thus 2DIGIT is a 2-digit
344:       number, and 3ALPHA is a string of three alphabetic characters.
345:  

2digit found at line 1641:
1638:                   /  "Fri"  / "Sat" /  "Sun"
1639:  
1640:       date        =  1*2DIGIT month 2DIGIT        ; day month year
1641:                                                   ;  e.g. 20 Jun 82
1642:  

2digit found at line 1650:
1647:       time        =  hour zone                    ; ANSI and Military
1648:  
1649:       hour        =  2DIGIT ":" 2DIGIT [":" 2DIGIT]
1650:                                                   ; 00:00:00 - 23:59:59
1651:  

2digit found at line 2697:
2694:       CTL         =  <any ASCII control           ; (  0- 37,  0.- 31.)
2695:                       character and DEL>          ; (    177,     127.)
2696:       date        =  1*2DIGIT month 2DIGIT        ; day month year
2697:                                                   ;  e.g. 20 Jun 82
2698:       dates       =   orig-date                   ; Original

2digit found at line 2747:
2744:       field-name  =  1*<any CHAR, excluding CTLs, SPACE, and ":">
2745:       group       =  phrase ":" [#mailbox] ";"
2746:       hour        =  2DIGIT ":" 2DIGIT [":" 2DIGIT]
2747:                                                   ; 00:00:00 - 23:59:59
2748:       HTAB        =  <ASCII HT, horizontal-tab>   ; (     11,       9.)


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc850.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 227:
224:  network.  One format that is acceptable to both is
225:  
226:       Weekday, DD-Mon-YY HH:MM:SS TIMEZONE
227:  
228:  Several examples of  valid  dates  appear  in  the  sample


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc867.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 67:
64:        Another popular syntax is that used in SMTP:
65:  
66:           dd mmm yy hh:mm:ss zzz
67:  
68:           Example:


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc868.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 19:
16:  This protocol provides a site-independent, machine readable date and
17:  time.  The Time service sends back to the originating source the time in
18:  seconds since midnight on January first 1900.
19:  
20:  One motivation arises from the fact that not all systems have a

1900 found at line 83:
80:  The Time
81:  
82:  The time is the number of seconds since 00:00 (midnight) 1 January 1900
83:  GMT, such that the time 1 is 12:00:01 am on 1 January 1900 GMT; this
84:  base will serve until the year 2036.

1900 found at line 84:
81:  
82:  The time is the number of seconds since 00:00 (midnight) 1 January 1900
83:  GMT, such that the time 1 is 12:00:01 am on 1 January 1900 GMT; this
84:  base will serve until the year 2036.
85:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc869.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1639:
1636:                    400      HDH
1637:                   1000      Cassette Writer
1638:                   2000      Propagation Delay Measurement
1639:                   4000      X25
1640:                  10000      Profile Measurements

2000 found at line 1642:
1639:                   4000      X25
1640:                  10000      Profile Measurements
1641:                  20000      Self Authenticating Password
1642:                  40000      Host traffic Matrix
1643:                 100000      Experimental/Special

2000 found at line 1669:
1666:                200      Trace ON
1667:               1000      Statistics ON
1668:               2000      Message Generator ON
1669:               4000      Packet Trace ON
1670:              10000      Host Data Checksum is BAD

2000 found at line 1672:
1669:               4000      Packet Trace ON
1670:              10000      Host Data Checksum is BAD
1671:              20000      Reload Location SET
1672:  
1673:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc884.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 236:
233:        GENERAL-TERMINAL-100A
234:        HAZELTINE-1500
235:        HAZELTINE-2000
236:        HP-2621
237:        HP-2640A


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc899.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 337:
334:     provides a site-independent, machine readable date and time.  The
335:     Time service sends back to the originating source the time in seconds
336:     since midnight on January first 1900.
337:  
338:  867     Postel       May 83      Daytime Protocol


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc900.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1595:
1592:     HAZELTINE-1510
1593:     HAZELTINE-1520
1594:     HAZELTINE-2000
1595:     HP-2621
1596:     HP-2621A


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc909.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 859:
856:       responses from the target.  A session begins when a host opens  a
857:       transport  connection to a target listening on a well known port.
858:       LDP uses RDP port number zzz or TCP port number  yyy.   When  the
859:       connection  has been established, the host sends a HELLO command,
860:       and the target  replies  with  a  HELLO_REPLY.   The  HELLO_REPLY


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc923.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1769:
1766:     HAZELTINE-1510
1767:     HAZELTINE-1520
1768:     HAZELTINE-2000
1769:     HP-2621
1770:     HP-2621A


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc937.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 327:
324:        FOLD mailbox                      - Error
325:        READ [n]                          #xxx
326:        RETR                              =yyy
327:        ACKS
328:        ACKD


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc943.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1829:
1826:     HAZELTINE-1510
1827:     HAZELTINE-1520
1828:     HAZELTINE-2000
1829:     HP-2621
1830:     HP-2621A


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc952.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 159:
156:     ,(comma)        is used as a data element delimiter
157:  
158:     XXX/YYY         indicates protocol information of the type
159:                     TRANSPORT/SERVICE.
160:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc956.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 748:
745:  
746:        3.  The data format should be based on the UDP Time format, which
747:            specifies 32-bit time in seconds since 1 January 1900, but
748:            extended additional bits for the fractional part of a second.
749:  

1900 found at line 826:
823:     experiment the results indicated by UDP and ICMP are compared.  In
824:     the UDP Time protocol time is indicated as a 32-bit field in seconds
825:     past 0000 UT on 1 January 1900, while in the ICMP Timestamp message
826:     time is indicated as a 32-bit field in milliseconds past 0000 UT of
827:     each day.

2000 found at line 1392:
1389:           CU-ARPA.CS.CORNELL.EDU  -1              -514
1390:           UCI-ICSE.ARPA           -1              -1896
1391:           UCI-ICSC.ARPA           1               2000
1392:           DCN9.ARPA               -7              -6610
1393:           TRANTOR.ARPA            10              10232


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc958.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 41:
38:     NTP provides the protocol mechanisms to synchronize time in principle
39:     to precisions in the order of nanoseconds while preserving a
40:     non-ambiguous date, at least for this century.  The protocol includes
41:     provisions to specify the precision and estimated error of the local
42:     clock and the characteristics of the reference clock to which it may

1900 found at line 143:
140:  
141:     NTP timestamps are represented as a 64-bit fixed-point number, in
142:     seconds relative to 0000 UT on 1 January 1900.  The integer part is
143:     in the first 32 bits and the fraction part in the last 32 bits, as
144:     shown in the following diagram.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc960.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1659:
1656:        014.000.000.018   2624-522-80900 52   DFVLR5-X25            [HDC1]
1657:        014.000.000.019   2041-170-10000 00   SHAPE-X25              [JFW]
1658:        014.000.000.020   5052-737-20000 50   UQNET                  [AXH]
1659:        014.000.000.021   3020-801-00057 50   DMC-CRC1              [JR17]
1660:        014.000.000.022-014.255.255.254       Unassigned             [JBP]

2000 found at line 1984:
1981:     AEGIS
1982:     APOLLO
1983:     BS-2000
1984:     CEDAR
1985:     CGW

2000 found at line 2350:
2347:     HAZELTINE-1510
2348:     HAZELTINE-1520
2349:     HAZELTINE-2000
2350:     HP-2621
2351:     HP-2621A


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc973.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 377:
374:        We might add the following to the parent zone:
375:  
376:         99.128.IN-ADDR.ARPA. 2000 NS  Q.ISI.EDU.               
377:                              2000 NS  XX.MIT.EDU.              
378:         Q.ISI.EDU.           2000 A   <address of Q.ISI.EDU.>  

2000 found at line 378:
375:  
376:         99.128.IN-ADDR.ARPA. 2000 NS  Q.ISI.EDU.               
377:                              2000 NS  XX.MIT.EDU.              
378:         Q.ISI.EDU.           2000 A   <address of Q.ISI.EDU.>  
379:         XX.MIT.EDU.          2000 A   <address of XX.MIT.EDU.> 

2000 found at line 379:
376:         99.128.IN-ADDR.ARPA. 2000 NS  Q.ISI.EDU.               
377:                              2000 NS  XX.MIT.EDU.              
378:         Q.ISI.EDU.           2000 A   <address of Q.ISI.EDU.>  
379:         XX.MIT.EDU.          2000 A   <address of XX.MIT.EDU.> 
380:  

2000 found at line 380:
377:                              2000 NS  XX.MIT.EDU.              
378:         Q.ISI.EDU.           2000 A   <address of Q.ISI.EDU.>  
379:         XX.MIT.EDU.          2000 A   <address of XX.MIT.EDU.> 
380:  
381:        and the following to the child zone:

2000 found at line 384:
381:        and the following to the child zone:
382:  
383:         99.128.IN-ADDR.ARPA. 2000 NS  Q.ISI.EDU.               
384:                              2000 NS  XX.MIT.EDU.              
385:                              5000 SOA <SOA information>        

2000 found at line 385:
382:  
383:         99.128.IN-ADDR.ARPA. 2000 NS  Q.ISI.EDU.               
384:                              2000 NS  XX.MIT.EDU.              
385:                              5000 SOA <SOA information>        
386:         Q.ISI.EDU.           2000 A   <address of Q.ISI.EDU.>  

2000 found at line 387:
384:                              2000 NS  XX.MIT.EDU.              
385:                              5000 SOA <SOA information>        
386:         Q.ISI.EDU.           2000 A   <address of Q.ISI.EDU.>  
387:         XX.MIT.EDU.          2000 A   <address of XX.MIT.EDU.> 
388:  

2000 found at line 388:
385:                              5000 SOA <SOA information>        
386:         Q.ISI.EDU.           2000 A   <address of Q.ISI.EDU.>  
387:         XX.MIT.EDU.          2000 A   <address of XX.MIT.EDU.> 
388:  
389:     SOA serials


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc977.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 814:
811:     the same format as the LIST command.
812:  
813:     The date is sent as 6 digits in the format YYMMDD, where YY is the
814:     last two digits of the year, MM is the two digits of the month (with
815:     leading zero, if appropriate), and DD is the day of the month (with

century found at line 817:
814:     last two digits of the year, MM is the two digits of the month (with
815:     leading zero, if appropriate), and DD is the day of the month (with
816:     leading zero, if appropriate).  The closest century is assumed as
817:     part of the year (i.e., 86 specifies 1986, 30 specifies 2030, 99 is
818:     1999, 00 is 2000).

2000 found at line 819:
816:     leading zero, if appropriate).  The closest century is assumed as
817:     part of the year (i.e., 86 specifies 1986, 30 specifies 2030, 99 is
818:     1999, 00 is 2000).
819:  
820:     Time must also be specified.  It must be as 6 digits HHMMSS with HH

2000 found at line 1190:
1187:  
1188:     (client asks for new newsgroups since April 3, 1985)
1189:     C:      NEWGROUPS 850403 020000
1190:  
1191:     S:      231 New newsgroups since 03/04/85 02:00:00 follow

2000 found at line 1275:
1272:  
1273:     (client asks for new newsgroups since 2 am, May 15, 1985)
1274:     C:      NEWGROUPS 850515 020000
1275:     S:      235 New newsgroups since 850515 follow
1276:     S:      net.fluff

2000 found at line 1282:
1279:  
1280:     (client asks for new news articles since 2 am, May 15, 1985)
1281:     C:      NEWNEWS * 850515 020000
1282:     S:      230 New news since 850515 020000 follows
1283:     S:      <1772@foo.UUCP>

2000 found at line 1283:
1280:     (client asks for new news articles since 2 am, May 15, 1985)
1281:     C:      NEWNEWS * 850515 020000
1282:     S:      230 New news since 850515 020000 follows
1283:     S:      <1772@foo.UUCP>
1284:     S:      <87623@baz.UUCP>


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc985.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 505:
502:        Very Distant Host (VDH) methods are not recommended for new
503:        implementations.  The Distant Host (DH) method is used when the
504:        host and IMP are separated by not more than about 2000 feet of
505:        cable, while the HDLC Distant Host is used for greater distances
506:        where a modem is required.  Retransmission, resequencing and flow


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc987.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 1100:
1097:           X.408 (sections 4.2.2 and 5.2.2).
1098:  
1099:        3.3.5.  UTCTime
1100:  
1101:           Both UTCTime and the RFC 822 822.date-time syntax contain: Year

UTCTime found at line 1102:
1099:        3.3.5.  UTCTime
1100:  
1101:           Both UTCTime and the RFC 822 822.date-time syntax contain: Year
1102:           (lowest two digits), Month, Day of Month, hour, minute, second
1103:           (optional), and Timezone.  822.date-time also contains an

UTCTime found at line 1107:
1104:           optional day of the week, but this is redundant.  Therefore a
1105:           symmetrical mapping can be made between these constructs <5>.
1106:           The UTCTime format which specifies the timezone offset should
1107:           be used, in line with CEN/CENELEC recommendations.
1108:  

UTCTime found at line 3395:
3392:  
3393:        The extended syntax of zone defined in the JNT Mail Protocol
3394:        should be used in the mapping of UTCTime defined in chapter 3.
3395:  
3396:     5.  Lack of separate 822-P1 originator specification

UTCTime found at line 3910:
3907:     <5>  In practice, a gateway will need to parse various illegal
3908:          variants on 822.date-time.  In cases where 822.date-time cannot
3909:          be parsed, it is recommended that the derived UTCTime is set to
3910:          the value at the time of translation.
3911:  

2digit found at line 2785:
2782:                              last-trace ";"
2783:                              "ext" 1*DIGIT
2784:                              "flags" 2DIGIT
2785:                              [ "intended" mailbox ] ";"
2786:                              [ "info" printablestring ]


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc990.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 2265:
2262:          014.000.000.018   2624-522-80900 52   DFVLR5-X25           [GB7]
2263:          014.000.000.019   2041-170-10000 00   SHAPE-X25            [JFW]
2264:          014.000.000.020   5052-737-20000 50   UQNET                [AXH]
2265:          014.000.000.021   3020-801-00057 50   DMC-CRC1            [JR17]
2266:          014.000.000.022   2624-522-80902 77   DFVLRVAX-X25         [GB7]

2000 found at line 2584:
2581:     AEGIS
2582:     APOLLO
2583:     BS-2000
2584:     CEDAR
2585:     CGW

2000 found at line 2945:
2942:     HAZELTINE-1510
2943:     HAZELTINE-1520
2944:     HAZELTINE-2000
2945:     HP-2621
2946:     HP-2621A


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc996.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 76:
73:  
74:          Process type: 000027  options: 040000
75:          Subnet: DMV  status: 376  hello: 15  timeout: 2000
76:          Foreign address: [192.5.39.87]  max size: 576
77:          Input packets      3645    Output packets  3690


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1000.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 3105:
3102:        protocol provides a site-independent, machine readable date and
3103:        time.  The Time service sends back to the originating source the
3104:        time in seconds since midnight on January first 1900.
3105:  
3106:     867     Postel       May 83      Daytime Protocol


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1009.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1412:
1409:        method is used when the host and IMP (the Defense Communication
1410:        Agency calls it a Packet Switch Node or PSN) are separated by not
1411:        more than about 2000 feet of cable, while the HDLC Distant Host
1412:        (HDH) is used for greater distances where a modem is required.
1413:        Under HDH, retransmission, resequencing and flow control are


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1010.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 969:
966:         014.000.000.018   2624-522-80900 52   DFVLR5-X25            [GB7]
967:         014.000.000.019   2041-170-10000 00   SHAPE-X25             [JFW]
968:         014.000.000.020   5052-737-20000 50   UQNET                 [AXH]
969:         014.000.000.021   3020-801-00057 50   DMC-CRC1             [JR17]
970:         014.000.000.022   2624-522-80902 77   DFVLRVAX-X25          [GB7]

2000 found at line 1353:
1350:     AEGIS
1351:     APOLLO
1352:     BS-2000
1353:     CEDAR
1354:     CGW

2000 found at line 1719:
1716:     HAZELTINE-1510
1717:     HAZELTINE-1520
1718:     HAZELTINE-2000
1719:     HP-2621
1720:     HP-2621A


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1024.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 535:
532:  
533:     The local system clock, measured in milliseconds since 00:00 1
534:     January 1900 UTC.  Assumed to be only a local estimate of the time.
535:     The value 0 is reserved for an uninitialized clock (For example, an
536:     uninitialized time-of-day chip.)

1900 found at line 546:
543:     A network synchronized clock, which is assumed to be synchronized
544:     across some part of a network.  The clock value is measured in
545:     milliseconds since 00:00 1 January 1900 UTC.  Specific information
546:     about the synchronization protocol is found in the system variable
547:     dictionary.  The value 0 is used to indicate an uninitialized clock.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1036.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 196:
193:      both is:
194:  
195:                        Wdy, DD Mon YY HH:MM:SS TIMEZONE
196:  
197:      Several examples of valid dates appear in the sample message above.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1037.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 541:
538:      Date                A numeric data token.  The date is expressed in
539:                          Universal Time format, which measures a time as
540:                          the number of seconds since January 1, 1900, at
541:                          midnight GMT.
542:  

1900 found at line 2544:
2541:     The creation date of the file.  The date is expressed in Universal
2542:     Time format, which measures a time as the number of seconds since
2543:     January 1, 1900, at midnight GMT.  Creation date does not necessarily
2544:     mean the time the file system created the directory entry or records
2545:     of the file.  For systems that support modification or appending to


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1038.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 317:
314:  
315:     The values of this field are assigned by DCA Code R130, Washington,
316:     D.C.  20305-2000.  Each value corresponds to a requestor who, once
317:     assigned, becomes the authority for the remainder of the option
318:     definition for that value.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1050.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 323:
320:  7.3 Program Number Assignment
321:  
322:     Program numbers are given out in groups of hexadecimal 20000000
323:     (decimal 536870912) according to the following chart:
324:  

2000 found at line 327:
324:  
325:                   0 - 1fffffff   defined by Sun
326:            20000000 - 3fffffff   defined by user
327:            40000000 - 5fffffff   transient
328:            60000000 - 7fffffff   reserved


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1057.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 339:
336:  7.3 Program Number Assignment
337:  
338:     Program numbers are given out in groups of hexadecimal 20000000
339:     (decimal 536870912) according to the following chart:
340:  

2000 found at line 343:
340:  
341:                   0 - 1fffffff   defined by Sun
342:            20000000 - 3fffffff   defined by user
343:            40000000 - 5fffffff   transient
344:            60000000 - 7fffffff   reserved


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1059.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 142:
139:     mechanisms to synchronize time in principle to precisions in the
140:     order of nanoseconds while preserving a non-ambiguous date well into
141:     the next century.  The protocol includes provisions to specify the
142:     characteristics and estimate the error of the local clock and the
143:     time server to which it may be synchronized.  It also includes

1900 found at line 574:
571:     frequency to the TA time scale.  At 0000 hours on 1 January 1972 the
572:     NTP time scale was set to 2,272,060,800, representing the number of
573:     TA seconds since 0000 hours on 1 January 1900.  The insertion of leap
574:     seconds in UTC does not affect the oscillator itself, only the
575:     translation between TA and UTC, or conventional civil time.  However,

1900 found at line 649:
646:     main product of the protocol, a special timestamp format has been
647:     established.  NTP timestamps are represented as a 64-bit unsigned
648:     fixed-point number, in seconds relative to 0000 UT on 1 January 1900.
649:     The integer part is in the first 32 bits and the fraction part in the
650:     last 32 bits, as shown in the following diagram.

1900 found at line 690:
687:     the Integer Part) has been set and that the 64-bit field will
688:     overflow some time in 2036.  Should NTP be in use in 2036, some
689:     external means will be necessary to qualify time relative to 1900 and
690:     time relative to 2036 (and other multiples of 136 years).
691:     Timestamped data requiring such qualification will be so precious


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1060.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2324:
2321:     AB-00-03-00-00-00       6004    DEC Local Area Transport (LAT) - old
2322:     AB-00-04-00-xx-xx       ????    Reserved DEC customer private use
2323:     AB-00-04-01-xx-yy       6007    DEC Local Area VAX Cluster groups
2324:                                     System Communication Architecture (SCA)
2325:     CF-00-00-00-00-00       9000    Ethernet Configuration Test protocol (Loopback)

2000 found at line 2729:
2726:         014.000.000.018   2624-522-80900 52   FGAN-SIEMENS-X25      [GB7]
2727:         014.000.000.019   2041-170-10000 00   SHAPE-X25             [JFW]
2728:         014.000.000.020   5052-737-20000 50   UQNET                 [AXH]
2729:         014.000.000.021   3020-801-00057 50   DMC-CRC1              [VXT]
2730:         014.000.000.022   2624-522-80329 02   FGAN-FGANFFMVAX-X25   [GB7]

2000 found at line 3155:
3152:     AEGIS                     MACOS                     TP3010
3153:     APOLLO                    MINOS                     TRSDOS
3154:     BS-2000                   MOS                       ULTRIX
3155:     CEDAR                     MPE5                      UNIX
3156:     CGW                       MSDOS                     UNIX-BSD

2000 found at line 3508:
3505:     HAZELTINE-1520                        IBM-3278-5-E
3506:     HAZELTINE-1552                        IBM-3279-2-E
3507:     HAZELTINE-2000                        IBM-3279-3-E
3508:     HAZELTINE-ESPRIT                      IMLAC
3509:     HP-2392                               INFOTON-100


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1064.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1321:
1318:                         "NO" SP text_line / "BAD" SP text_line)
1319:  
1320:     date            ::= string in form "dd-mmm-yy hh:mm:ss-zzz"
1321:  
1322:     envelope        ::= "(" env_date SP env_subject SP env_from SP


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1085.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 1501:
1498:  
1499:                 commonReference
1500:                     UTCTime,
1501:  
1502:                 additionalReferenceInformation[0]


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1094.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 878:
875:  
876:        0040000 This is a directory; "type" field should be NFDIR.
877:        0020000 This is a character special file; "type" field should
878:                be NFCHR.
879:        0060000 This is a block special file; "type" field should be

2000 found at line 883:
880:                NFBLK.
881:        0100000 This is a regular file; "type" field should be NFREG.
882:        0120000 This is a symbolic link file;  "type" field should be
883:                NFLNK.
884:        0140000 This is a named socket; "type" field should be NFNON.

2000 found at line 887:
884:        0140000 This is a named socket; "type" field should be NFNON.
885:        0004000 Set user id on execution.
886:        0002000 Set group id on execution.
887:        0001000 Save swapped text even after use.
888:        0000400 Read permission for owner.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1108.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 187:
184:     throughout DoD common user data networks, users of these networks
185:     should submit requirements for additional Protection Authority Flags
186:     to DISA DISDB, Washington, D.C.  20305-2000, for review and approval.
187:     Such review and approval should be sought prior to design,
188:     development or deployment of any system which would make use of

2000 found at line 774:
771:     data networks, and to maximize interoperability, each activity should
772:     submit its plans for the definition and use of an Additional Security
773:     Info Format Code to DISA DISDB, Washington, D.C.  20305-2000 for
774:     review and approval.  DISA DISDB will forward plans to the Internet
775:     Activities Board for architectural review and, if required, a cleared


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1114.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 922:
919:                issuer          Name,
920:                list            SEQUENCE RCLEntry,
921:                lastUpdate      UTCTime,
922:                nextUpdate      UTCTime}
923:  

UTCTime found at line 923:
920:                list            SEQUENCE RCLEntry,
921:                lastUpdate      UTCTime,
922:                nextUpdate      UTCTime}
923:  
924:        RCLEntry        ::=     SEQUENCE {

UTCTime found at line 927:
924:        RCLEntry        ::=     SEQUENCE {
925:                subject         CertificateSerialNumber,
926:                revocationDate  UTCTime}
927:  
928:  3.4  Certificate Definition and Usage

UTCTime found at line 1296:
1293:  
1294:           Validity ::=    SEQUENCE{
1295:                   notBefore       UTCTime,
1296:                   notAfter        UTCTime}
1297:  

UTCTime found at line 1297:
1294:           Validity ::=    SEQUENCE{
1295:                   notBefore       UTCTime,
1296:                   notAfter        UTCTime}
1297:  
1298:           SubjectPublicKeyInfo ::=        SEQUENCE{


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1117.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 4965:
4962:          jwmanly%amherst.bitnet@MITVMA.MIT.EDU
4963:  [JWN10] Norris, James W         a02jwn1%niu.bitnet@CUNYVM.CUNY.EDU
4964:  [JY24]  Yu, Jessica             jyy@MERIT.EDU
4965:  [JY33]  Yoshida, Jun            ---none---
4966:  [KA4]   Auerbach, Karl          auerbach@CSL.SRI.COM


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1123.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2digit found at line 3239:
3236:           The syntax for the date is hereby changed to:
3237:  
3238:              date = 1*2DIGIT month 2*4DIGIT
3239:  
3240:  

century found at line 3253:
3250:  
3251:           All mail software SHOULD use 4-digit years in dates, to ease
3252:           the transition to the next century.
3253:  
3254:           There is a strong trend towards the use of numeric timezone


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1133.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 493:
490:     Telephone:      313 936-2655
491:     Fax:            313 747-3745
492:     EMail:          jyy@merit.edu
493:  
494:     Hans-Werner Braun


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1138.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 1471:
1468:     the full BNF easier to parse.
1469:  
1470:  3.3.5.  UTCTime
1471:  
1472:     Both UTCTime and the RFC 822 822.date-time syntax contain:  Year

UTCTime found at line 1473:
1470:  3.3.5.  UTCTime
1471:  
1472:     Both UTCTime and the RFC 822 822.date-time syntax contain:  Year
1473:     (lowest two digits), Month, Day of Month, hour, minute, second
1474:     (optional), and Timezone.  822.date-time also contains an optional

UTCTime found at line 1482:
1479:          In practice, a gateway will need to parse various illegal
1480:          variants on 822.date-time.  In cases where 822.date-time
1481:          cannot be parsed, it is recommended that the derived UTCTime
1482:          is set to the value at the time of translation.
1483:  

UTCTime found at line 1485:
1482:          is set to the value at the time of translation.
1483:  
1484:     The UTCTime format which specifies the timezone offset should be
1485:     used.
1486:  

UTCTime found at line 4469:
4466:  
4467:     The extended syntax of zone defined in the JNT Mail Protocol should
4468:     be used in the mapping of UTCTime defined in Chapter 3.
4469:  
4470:  6.  Lack of 822-MTS originator specification


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1147.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 9715:
9712:            cerns to security and management personnel at DDN facili-
9713:            ties.  It is available online, via kermit or anonymous FTP,
9714:            from nic.ddn.mil, in SCC:DDN-SECURITY-yy-nn.TXT (where "yy"
9715:            is the year and "nn" is the bulletin number).  The SCC pro-
9716:            vides immediate assistance with DDN-related host security

century found at line 1096:
1093:            "NETMON." These tools were independently developed, are
1094:            functionally different, run in different environments, and
1095:            are no more related than Richard Burton the 19th century
1096:            explorer and Richard Burton the 20th century actor.  BYU's
1097:            tool "NETMON" is listed as "NETMON (I)," MITRE's as "NETMON

century found at line 1097:
1094:            functionally different, run in different environments, and
1095:            are no more related than Richard Burton the 19th century
1096:            explorer and Richard Burton the 20th century actor.  BYU's
1097:            tool "NETMON" is listed as "NETMON (I)," MITRE's as "NETMON
1098:            (II)," and the tool from SNMP Research as "NETMON (III)."

2000 found at line 4134:
4131:                 libraries), but this has not been done.  Curses is very
4132:                 slow and cpu intensive on VMS, but the tool has been
4133:                 run in a window on a VAXstation 2000.  Just don't try
4134:                 to run it on a terminal connected to a 11/750.
4135:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1148.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 1475:
1472:     the full BNF easier to parse.
1473:  
1474:  3.3.5.  UTCTime
1475:  
1476:     Both UTCTime and the RFC 822 822.date-time syntax contain:  Year

UTCTime found at line 1477:
1474:  3.3.5.  UTCTime
1475:  
1476:     Both UTCTime and the RFC 822 822.date-time syntax contain:  Year
1477:     (lowest two digits), Month, Day of Month, hour, minute, second
1478:     (optional), and Timezone.  822.date-time also contains an optional

UTCTime found at line 1486:
1483:          In practice, a gateway will need to parse various illegal
1484:          variants on 822.date-time.  In cases where 822.date-time
1485:          cannot be parsed, it is recommended that the derived UTCTime
1486:          is set to the value at the time of translation.
1487:  

UTCTime found at line 1489:
1486:          is set to the value at the time of translation.
1487:  
1488:     The UTCTime format which specifies the timezone offset should be
1489:     used.
1490:  

UTCTime found at line 4566:
4563:  
4564:     The extended syntax of zone defined in the JNT Mail Protocol should
4565:     be used in the mapping of UTCTime defined in Chapter 3.
4566:  
4567:  6.  Lack of 822-MTS originator specification


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1152.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 937:
934:     Reservation Multiple-Access).
935:  
936:     Finally, Yechiam Yemeni (YY, Columbia University) discussed his work
937:     on a protocol silicon compiler.  In order to exploit the potential
938:     parallelism, he is planning to use one processor per connection.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1153.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 119:
116:  
117:  
118:  Date: ddd, dd mmm yy hh:mm:ss zzz
119:  From: listname-REQUEST@fqhn
120:  Reply-To: listname@fqhn

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 122:
119:  From: listname-REQUEST@fqhn
120:  Reply-To: listname@fqhn
121:  Subject: listname Digest Vyy #nn
122:  To: listname@fqhn
123:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 125:
122:  To: listname@fqhn
123:  
124:  listname Digest             ddd, dd mmm yy       Volume yy : Issue   nn
125:  
126:  Today's Topics:

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 137:
134:  ----------------------------------------------------------------------
135:  
136:  Date: ddd, dd mmm yy hh:mm:ss zzz
137:  From: Joe User <username@fqhn>
138:  Subject: Message One Subject

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 147:
144:  ------------------------------
145:  
146:  Date: ddd, dd mmm yy hh:mm:ss zzz
147:  From: Jane User <username@fqhn>
148:  Subject: Message Two Subject

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 157:
154:  ------------------------------
155:  
156:  End of listname Digest Vyy Issue #nn
157:  ************************************
158:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1161.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 322:
319:     on the protocol-ID
320:  
321:                                   03019000
322:  
323:  5.  Acknowledgements

2000 found at line 210:
207:     (1)  <nsap> is a hex string defining the nsap, e.g.,
208:  
209:                       "snmp"/NS+4900590800200038bafe00
210:  
211:     Similarly, SNMP traps are, by convention, sent to a manager listening

2000 found at line 291:
288:     (1)  <nsap> is a hex string defining the nsap, e.g.,
289:  
290:                       "snmp"/NS+4900590800200038bafe00
291:  
292:     Similarly, SNMP traps are, by convention, sent to a manager listening


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1164.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1267:
1264:     Phone:  (313) 936-3000
1265:  
1266:     Email:  JYY@MERIT.EDU
1267:  
1268:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1166.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 8270:
8267:     [JWN10]         Norris, James W.
8268:                     a02jwn1%niu.bitnet@CUNYVM.CUNY.EDU
8269:     [JY24]          Yu, Jessica              jyy@MERIT.EDU
8270:     [JY33]          Yoshida, Jun             ---none---
8271:     [JY35]          Young, Jeff              ---none---


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1167.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 89:
86:     are also likely play a role along with Switched Multi-megabit Data
87:     Service (SMDS) provided by telecommunications carriers.  It also
88:     would be fair to ask what role FTS-2000 might play in the system, at
89:     least in support of government access to the NREN, and possibly in
90:     support of national agency network facilities.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1173.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 72:
69:     only choice; I don't see any prospect of either the government or
70:     private enterprise building a monolithic, centralized, ubiquitous "Ma
71:     Datagram" network provider in this century.
72:  
73:  2. Responsibilities of Network Managers


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1176.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1435:
1432:                         "NO" SP text_line / "BAD" SP text_line)
1433:  
1434:     date            ::= string in form "dd-mmm-yy hh:mm:ss-zzz"
1435:  
1436:     envelope        ::= "(" env_date SP env_subject SP env_from SP


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1185.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 208:
205:        1.1MBps, no matter how high the theoretical transfer rate of the
206:        path.  This corresponds to cycling the sequence number space in
207:        Twrap= 2000 secs, which is safe in today's Internet.
208:  
209:        Based on this reasoning, an earlier RFC [McKenzie89] has cautioned


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1190.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 7630:
7627:                                       link failure
7628:  
7629:          2000  DefaultRecoveryTimeout Interval between successive
7630:                                       HELLOs to/from active neighbors
7631:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1191.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 925:
922:                65535  Hyperchannel                  RFC 1044
923:     65535
924:     32000             Just in case
925:                17914  16Mb IBM Token Ring           ref. [6]
926:     17914


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1203.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2102:
2099:                      "NO" SP text_line / "BAD" SP text_line)
2100:  
2101:  date            ::= string in form "dd-mmm-yy hh:mm:ss-zzz"
2102:  
2103:  envelope        ::= "(" env_date SP env_subject SP env_from SP

2000 found at line 2614:
2611:          question.  For example:
2612:  
2613:            tag42 FETCH 197 BODY 2000:3999
2614:  
2615:          would fetch the second two thousand bytes of the body of message


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1207.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 136:
133:        directory.  Information includes packet counts by NSS and byte
134:        counts for type of use (ftp, smtp, telnet, etc.).  Filenames are
135:        of the form 'NSFyy-mm.type'.
136:  
137:        Files are available for anonymous ftp; use 'guest' as the


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1210.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1548:
1545:     Franci Bigi (1)
1546:     CEC
1547:     Rue de la Loi 2000
1548:     B-1049
1549:     Brussels

2000 found at line 1756:
1753:     Rolf Speth (1)
1754:     CEC
1755:     Rue de la Loi 2000
1756:     B-1049
1757:     Brussels

2000 found at line 1773:
1770:     Jose Torcato (1), (2)
1771:     CEC, TR 61 0/10
1772:     Rue de la Loi 2000
1773:     B-1049
1774:     Brussels

2000 found at line 1801:
1798:     Karel De Vriendt (1)
1799:     CEC
1800:     Rue de la Loi 2000
1801:     B-1049
1802:     Brussels

2000 found at line 1837:
1834:     Rosalie Zobel (1) (2)
1835:     CEC
1836:     Rue de la Loi 2000
1837:     B-1049
1838:     Brussels


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1211.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 1591:
1588:  
1589:     westine 49% mconnect OSI3.NCSL.NIST.GOV
1590:     connecting to host OSI3.NCSL.NIST.GOV (0x6c300681), port 0x1900
1591:     connection open
1592:     220 osi3.ncsl.nist.gov sendmail 4.0/NIST(rbj/dougm) ready at

2000 found at line 2363:
2360:        Office Automation Division
2361:        Code H610
2362:        Washington, DC 20305-2000
2363:  
2364:        Hostname: DCA-EMS.DCA.MIL


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1218.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1249:
1246:     Rapport Communication, Inc.
1247:     3055 Q Street NW
1248:     Washington, DC  20007
1249:  
1250:     Tel: +1 202-342-2727


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1224.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 983:
980:        and placed in an ethernet packet).  120 request packets are sent
981:        each cycle (3 for each of 40 nodes), and 120 response packets are
982:        expected.  72000 bytes (240 packets at 300 bytes each) must be
983:        transferred during each poll cycle, merely to determine that the
984:        network is fine.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1244.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2481:
2478:              and concerns to security and management personnel at DDN
2479:              facilities.  It is available online, via kermit or anonymous
2480:              FTP, from the host NIC.DDN.MIL, in SCC:DDN-SECURITY-yy-
2481:              nn.TXT (where "yy" is the year and "nn" is the bulletin
2482:              number).  The SCC provides immediate assistance with DDN-

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2482:
2479:              facilities.  It is available online, via kermit or anonymous
2480:              FTP, from the host NIC.DDN.MIL, in SCC:DDN-SECURITY-yy-
2481:              nn.TXT (where "yy" is the year and "nn" is the bulletin
2482:              number).  The SCC provides immediate assistance with DDN-
2483:              related host security problems; call (800) 235-3155 (6:00


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1251.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 316:
313:             where growing above 100 network numbers seemed excessive.
314:             Todays number of networks in the global infrastructure
315:             exceeds 2000 connected networks, and many more if isolated
316:             network islands get included.
317:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1254.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 592:
589:     number of packet arrivals, over which packets are dropped with
590:     uniform probability.  For instance, in a sample implementation, if
591:     this interval spanned 2000 packet arrivals, and a suitable
592:     probability of drop was 0.001, then two random variables would be
593:     drawn in a uniform distribution in the range of 1 to 2,000.  The

2000 found at line 859:
856:     indicates that to get good, consistent performance, we may need to
857:     have up to 5 to 10 times the number of active source-destination
858:     pairs. In a typical gateway, this may require around 1000 to 2000
859:     queues.
860:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1255.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1361:
1358:     Rapport Communication, Inc.
1359:     3055 Q Street NW
1360:     Washington, DC  20007
1361:  
1362:     Tel: +1 202-342-2727


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1259.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 345:
342:     should never go back to any monopoly arrangement like the pre-
343:     divestiture AT&T which held back market-driven innovation in
344:     telecommunications for half a century.  Given the interconnection
345:     technology now available, we should never again have to accept the
346:     argument that we have to sacrifice interoperability for efficiency,

century found at line 594:
591:  
592:        In light of the possibilities for new service offerings by the
593:        21st century, as well as the growing importance of
594:        telecommunications and information services to US economic and
595:        social development, limiting our concept of universal service to

century found at line 744:
741:     If we have the vision and commitment to try this, the transformation
742:     of the network frontier from wilderness to civilization need not
743:     display the brutality of 19th century imperialism.  As commercial
744:     opportunities to offer applications and services develop,
745:     entrepreneurs will discover that ease of use sells. The normal,

2000 found at line 1115:
1112:     California v. FCC (9th Cir. 1990).
1113:  
1114:     18.  NTIA Telecomm 2000 at 79.
1115:  
1116:     19.  Committee on Energy and Commerce, Subcommittee on


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1270.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 594:
591:     Hopkinton, Mass. 01748
592:  
593:     Phone: (508) 435-2000
594:  
595:     Email: kasten@europa.clearpoint.com


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1274.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 1051:
1048:       lastModifiedTime ATTRIBUTE
1049:           WITH ATTRIBUTE-SYNTAX
1050:               uTCTimeSyntax
1051:       ::= {pilotAttributeType 23}
1052:  

UTCTime found at line 2990:
2987:       lastModifiedTime ATTRIBUTE
2988:           WITH ATTRIBUTE-SYNTAX
2989:               uTCTimeSyntax
2990:       ::= {pilotAttributeType 23}
2991:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1276.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 558:
555:          }
556:  
557:  EDBVersion ::= UTCTime                                              40
558:  
559:  ___________________Figure_2:__Replication_Protocol_____________________

UTCTime found at line 938:
935:          }
936:  
937:  EDBVersion ::= UTCTime
938:  END
939:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1283.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 317:
314:     on the protocol-ID
315:  
316:                                   03019000
317:  
318:     This is an X.25 protocol-ID assigned for local purposes.

2000 found at line 206:
203:     (1)  <nsap> is a hex string defining the nsap, e.g.,
204:  
205:                       "snmp"/NS+4900590800200038bafe00
206:  
207:     Similarly, SNMP traps are, by convention, sent to a manager listening

2000 found at line 278:
275:     (1)  <nsap> is a hex string defining the nsap, e.g.,
276:  
277:                       "snmp"/NS+4900590800200038bafe00
278:  
279:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1284.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1146:
1143:     Hopkinton Mass 01748
1144:  
1145:     Phone: 508-435-2000
1146:     EMail: kasten@europa.clearpoint.com
1147:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1285.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 219:
216:            -- The unique identifier for the FDDI station.  This is a
217:            -- string of 8 octets, represented as
218:            --                                X' yy yy xx xx xx xx xx xx'
219:            -- with the low order 6 octet (xx) from a unique IEEE
220:            -- assigned address.  The high order two bits of the IEEE

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 232:
229:  
230:            -- (Universal/Local) bit should both be zero.  The first two
231:            -- octets, the yy octets, are implementor-defined.
232:            --
233:            -- The representation of the address portion of the station id


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1290.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 549:
546:        Anonymous FTP to nis.nsf.net
547:        cd stats
548:        get nsfyy-mm.ptraffic  where yy is year, 91 and mm is month, 06
549:        get nsf91-06.ptraffic  ptraffic is the packet traffic
550:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 552:
549:        get nsf91-06.ptraffic  ptraffic is the packet traffic
550:  
551:        get nsfyy-mm.btraffic  where yy is year, 91 and mm is month, 06
552:        get nsf91-06.btraffic  btraffic is the byte traffic
553:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1292.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 3648:
3645:  
3646:  
3647:         When comparing attributes of UTCtime syntax, if the seconds field
3648:         is omitted, QUIPU does not perform the match correctly (i.e., the
3649:         seconds field in	the attribute values should be ignored,	but  are

2000 found at line 4158:
4155:  
4156:     UCOM.X 500 runs on: Sun 3, Sun 4, IBM RS 6000, Philips P 9000, DEC
4157:     machines, Bull DPX 2000, HP 9000/300, Siemens IN 6000 and 386-based
4158:     PCs.	 It can	easily be ported to any	UNIX machine.
4159:  

2000 found at line 4803:
4800:  HARDWARE PLATFORMS
4801:  
4802:     3Com's OSI/TCP CS/2000 and CS/2100.
4803:  
4804:  SOFTWARE PLATFORMS

2000 found at line 4807:
4804:  SOFTWARE PLATFORMS
4805:  
4806:     The "SW/2000-OT Vers	1.0" software runs on 3Com's OSI/TCP CS/2000 and
4807:     CS/2100, both stand-alone systems.
4808:  

2000 found at line 4812:
4809:  AVAILABILITY
4810:  
4811:     The dual-stack OSI/TCP terminal server and its "SW/2000-OT Vers 1.0"
4812:     software is available from:
4813:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1295.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 98:
95:     Rapport Communication
96:     3055 Q Street NW
97:     Washington, DC  20007
98:  
99:     Phone: +1 202-342-2727


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1303.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 189:
186:             TYPE NOTATION ::=
187:                               "LAST-UPDATED"
188:                                   value(update      UTCTime)
189:                               "PRODUCT-RELEASE"
190:                                   value(release     DisplayString)


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1305.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 428:
425:  mechanisms to synchronize time in principle to precisions in the order
426:  of nanoseconds while preserving a non-ambiguous date well into the next
427:  century. The protocol includes provisions to specify the characteristics
428:  and estimate the error of the local clock and the time server to which
429:  it may be synchronized. It also includes provisions for operation with a

century found at line 4529:
4526:  political and ritual needs characteristic of the societies in which they
4527:  flourished. Astronomical observations to establish the winter and summer
4528:  solstices were in use three to four millennia ago. By the 14th century
4529:  BC the Shang Chinese had established the solar year as 365.25 days and
4530:  the lunar month as 29.5 days. The lunisolar calendar, in which the

century found at line 4548:
4545:  with the Shang Chinese, the ancient Egyptians had thus established the
4546:  solar year at 365.25 days, or within about 11 minutes of the present
4547:  measured value. In 432 BC, about a century after the Chinese had done
4548:  so, the Greek astronomer Meton calculated there were 110 lunar months of
4549:  29 days and 125 lunar months of 30 days for a total of 235 lunar months

century found at line 4565:
4562:  not complete until 8 AD.
4563:  
4564:  The seven-day Sumerian week was introduced only in the fourth century AD
4565:  by Emperor Constantine I. During the Roman era a 15-year census cycle,
4566:  called the Indiction cycle, was instituted for taxation purposes. The

century found at line 4588:
4585:  but 14 of these were removed in the Gregorian calendar. While the
4586:  Gregorian calendar is in use throughout most of the world today, some
4587:  countries did not adopt it until early in the twentieth century.
4588:  While it remains a fascinating field for time historians, the above
4589:  narrative provides conclusive evidence that conjugating calendar dates

century found at line 4620:
4617:  sometimes used to represent dates near our own era in conventional time
4618:  and with fewer digits, is defined as MJD = JD <196> 2,400,000.5.
4619:  Following the convention that our century began at 0h on 1 January 1900,
4620:  at which time the tropical year was already 12h old, that eclectic
4621:  instant corresponds to MJD 15,020.0. Thus, the Julian timescale ticks in

century found at line 4640:
4637:  through observations of the Sun, Moon and planets. In 1958 the standard
4638:  second was defined as 1/31,556,925.9747 of the tropical year that began
4639:  this century. On this scale the tropical year is 365.2421987 days and
4640:  the lunar month - one complete revolution of the Moon around the Earth -
4641:  is 29.53059 days; however, the actual tropical year can be determined

1900 found at line 851:
848:  product of the protocol, a special timestamp format has been
849:  established. NTP timestamps are represented as a 64-bit unsigned fixed-
850:  point number, in seconds relative to 0h on 1 January 1900. The integer
851:  part is in the first 32 bits and the fraction part in the last 32 bits.
852:  This format allows convenient multiple-precision arithmetic and

1900 found at line 873:
870:  integer part) has been set and that the 64-bit field will overflow some
871:  time in 2036. Should NTP be in use in 2036, some external means will be
872:  necessary to qualify time relative to 1900 and time relative to 2036
873:  (and other multiples of 136 years). Timestamped data requiring such
874:  qualification will be so precious that appropriate means should be

1900 found at line 4620:
4617:  sometimes used to represent dates near our own era in conventional time
4618:  and with fewer digits, is defined as MJD = JD <196> 2,400,000.5.
4619:  Following the convention that our century began at 0h on 1 January 1900,
4620:  at which time the tropical year was already 12h old, that eclectic
4621:  instant corresponds to MJD 15,020.0. Thus, the Julian timescale ticks in

1900 found at line 4724:
4721:  always coincident with it. At 0h on 1 January 1972 (MJD 41,317.0), the
4722:  first tick of the UTC Era, the NTP clock was set to 2,272,060,800,
4723:  representing the number of standard seconds since 0h on 1 January 1900
4724:  (MJD 15,020.0). The insertion of leap seconds in UTC and subsequently
4725:  into NTP does not affect the UTC or NTP oscillator, only the conversion

2000 found at line 4489:
4486:  the Mid-Continent Chain, the deployment of LORAN-C transmitters now
4487:  provides complete coverage of the U.S. LORAN-C timing receivers, such as
4488:  the Austron 2000, are specialized and extremely expensive (up to
4489:  $20,000). They are used primarily to monitor local cesium clocks and are
4490:  not suited for unattended, automatic operation. While the LORAN-C system


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1309.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 48:
45:  
46:     As the pace of industry, science, and technological development
47:     quickened over the past century, it became increasingly probable that
48:     someone in a geographically distant location would be trying to solve
49:     the same problems you were trying to solve, or that someone in a


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1314.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1109:
1106:     00DE        YPosition              011F   0005   00000001  0000016C
1107:     00EA        Group4Options          0125   0004   00000001  00000002
1108:     00F6        ResolutionUnit         0128   0003   00000001  00020000
1109:     0102        Software               0131   0002   00000008  00000174
1110:     010E        DateTime               0132   0002   00000014  0000017C


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1323.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 320:
317:        1.1MBps, no matter how high the theoretical transfer rate of the
318:        path.  This corresponds to cycling the sequence number space in
319:        Twrap= 2000 secs, which is safe in today's Internet.
320:  
321:        It is important to understand that the culprit is not the larger


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1325.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 611:
608:        In addition, back issues of the Report are available for anonymous
609:        FTP from the host NIS.NSF.NET in the 'imr' directory with the file
610:        names in the form IMRYY-MM.TXT, where YY is the last two digits of
611:        the year and MM two digits for the month.  For example, the June
612:        1991 Report is in the file IMR91-06.TXT.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1327.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2618:
2615:          attributes remaining in the O/R address shall be encoded on
2616:          the LHS.  This is to ensure a reversible mapping. For
2617:          example, if the is an addres /S=XX/O=YY/ADMD=A/C=NN/ and a
2618:          mapping for /ADMD=A/C=NN/ is used, then /S=XX/O=YY/ is
2619:          encoded on the LHS.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2619:
2616:          the LHS.  This is to ensure a reversible mapping. For
2617:          example, if the is an addres /S=XX/O=YY/ADMD=A/C=NN/ and a
2618:          mapping for /ADMD=A/C=NN/ is used, then /S=XX/O=YY/ is
2619:          encoded on the LHS.
2620:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2665:
2662:  
2663:             C          = "XX"
2664:             ADMD       = "YY"
2665:             O          = "ZZ"
2666:             "RFC-822"  = "Smith(a)ZZ.YY.XX"

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2667:
2664:             ADMD       = "YY"
2665:             O          = "ZZ"
2666:             "RFC-822"  = "Smith(a)ZZ.YY.XX"
2667:  
2668:     This is mapped first to an RFC 822 address, and then back to the

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2673:
2670:  
2671:             C          = "XX"
2672:             ADMD       = "YY"
2673:             O          = "ZZ"
2674:             Surname    = "Smith"

UTCTime found at line 1483:
1480:     the full BNF easier to parse.
1481:  
1482:  3.3.5.  UTCTime
1483:  
1484:     Both UTCTime and the RFC 822 822.date-time syntax contain:  Year

UTCTime found at line 1485:
1482:  3.3.5.  UTCTime
1483:  
1484:     Both UTCTime and the RFC 822 822.date-time syntax contain:  Year
1485:     (lowest two digits), Month, Day of Month, hour, minute, second
1486:     (optional), and Timezone.  822.date-time also contains an optional

UTCTime found at line 1494:
1491:          In practice, a gateway will need to parse various illegal
1492:          variants on 822.date-time.  In cases where 822.date-time
1493:          cannot be parsed, it is recommended that the derived UTCTime
1494:          is set to the value at the time of translation.
1495:  

UTCTime found at line 1497:
1494:          is set to the value at the time of translation.
1495:  
1496:     When mapping to X.400, the UTCTime format which specifies the
1497:     timezone offset shall be used.
1498:  

UTCTime found at line 5143:
5140:  
5141:        The extended syntax of zone defined in the JNT Mail Protocol shall
5142:        be used in the mapping of UTCTime defined in Chapter 3.
5143:  
5144:     7.  Lack of 822-MTS originator specification


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1330.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1770:
1767:     While ESnet will provide X.400 routing service for systems, it cannot
1768:     provide routing via commercial X.400 carriers at this time.  The
1769:     FTS-2000 charge for routing X.400 messages is $.45 (US) plus X.25
1770:     packet charges.  This could result in a charge of several dollars for
1771:     large messages, a real possibility with the multi-media capacity of


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1336.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 378:
375:             where growing above 100 network numbers seemed excessive.
376:             Todays number of networks in the global infrastructure
377:             exceeds 2000 connected networks, and many more if isolated
378:             network islands get included.
379:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1338.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 401:
398:     3.2.  Historic growth rates
399:  
400:        MM/YY     ROUTES                        MM/YY     ROUTES
401:                  ADVERTISED                              ADVERTISED
402:        ------------------------                -----------------------

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1060:
1057:        1071 Beal Ave.
1058:        Ann Arbor, MI 48109
1059:        email: jyy@merit.edu
1060:  
1061:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1340.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 3390:
3387:     AB-00-03-00-00-00	   6004	   DEC Local Area Transport (LAT) - old
3388:     AB-00-04-00-xx-xx	   ????	   Reserved DEC	customer private use
3389:     AB-00-04-01-xx-yy	   6007	   DEC Local Area VAX Cluster groups
3390:  				   Sys.	Communication Architecture (SCA)
3391:     CF-00-00-00-00-00	   9000	   Ethernet Configuration Test protocol

1900 found at line 4066:
4063:         014.000.000.063	 2422-650-23500	00   Tollpost-Globe AS	   [OXG]
4064:         014.000.000.064	 2422-330-02500	00   Tollpost-Globe AS	   [OXG]
4065:         014.000.000.065	 2422-350-01900	00   Tollpost-Globe AS	   [OXG]
4066:         014.000.000.066	 2422-410-00700	00   Tollpost-Globe AS	   [OXG]
4067:         014.000.000.067	 2422-539-06200	00   Tollpost-Globe AS	   [OXG]

2000 found at line 1300:
1297:     nkd		   1650/tcp
1298:     nkd		   1650/udp
1299:     callbook	   2000/tcp
1300:     callbook	   2000/udp
1301:     dc		   2001/tcp

2000 found at line 1301:
1298:     nkd		   1650/udp
1299:     callbook	   2000/tcp
1300:     callbook	   2000/udp
1301:     dc		   2001/tcp
1302:     wizard	   2001/udp    curry

2000 found at line 4013:
4010:         014.000.000.018	 2624-522-80900	52   FGAN-SIEMENS-X25	   [GB7]
4011:         014.000.000.019	 2041-170-10000	00   SHAPE-X25		   [JFW]
4012:         014.000.000.020	 5052-737-20000	50   UQNET		   [AXH]
4013:         014.000.000.021	 3020-801-00057	50   DMC-CRC1		   [VXT]
4014:         014.000.000.022	 2624-522-80329	02   FGAN-FGANFFMVAX-X25   [GB7]

2000 found at line 4838:
4835:     AIX/370		     LOCUS		       SWIFT
4836:     AIX-PS/2		     MACOS		       TAC
4837:     BS-2000		     MINOS		       TANDEM
4838:     CEDAR		     MOS		       TENEX
4839:     CGW			     MPE5		       TOPS10

2000 found at line 5188:
5185:     HAZELTINE-1520			 IBM-3278-3
5186:     HAZELTINE-1552			 IBM-3278-4
5187:     HAZELTINE-2000			 IBM-3278-5
5188:     HAZELTINE-ESPRIT			 IBM-3279-2
5189:     HITACHI-5601				 IBM-3279-3


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1348.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 143:
140:     Or in net 11110031f67293.nsap-in-addr.arpa:
141:  
142:     67894444333322220000  NSAP-PTR        host.school.de.
143:  
144:     The RR data is the ASCII representation of the digits.  It is encoded


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1357.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 260:
257:  
258:  ID (M) -- This is the second field of any record.  It is also a
259:          mandatory field.  Its format is "ID:: XXX//YYY", where XXX is
260:          the publisher-ID (the controlled symbol of the publisher)
261:          and YYY is the ID (e.g., report number) of the publication as

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 262:
259:          mandatory field.  Its format is "ID:: XXX//YYY", where XXX is
260:          the publisher-ID (the controlled symbol of the publisher)
261:          and YYY is the ID (e.g., report number) of the publication as
262:          assigned by the publisher.  This ID is typically printed on
263:          the cover, and may contain slashes.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 682:
679:  
680:     In order to avoid conflicts among the symbols of the publishing
681:     organizations (the XXX part of the "ID:: XXX//YYY") it is suggested
682:     that the various organizations that publish reports (such as
683:     universities, departments, and laboratories) register their

2-digit found at line 291:
288:  
289:          The format for ENTRY date is "Month Day, Year".  The month must
290:          be alphabetic (spelled out).    The "Day" is a 1- or 2-digit
291:          number.  The "Year" is a 4-digit number.
292:  

2-digit found at line 457:
454:  DATE (O) -- The publication date.  The formats are "Month Year" and
455:          "Month Day, Year".  The month must be alphabetic (spelled out).
456:          The "Day" is a 1- or 2-digit number.  The "Year" is a 4-digit
457:          number.
458:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1361.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 132:
129:     main product of the protocol, a special timestamp format has been
130:     established. NTP timestamps are represented as a 64-bit unsigned
131:     fixed-point number, in seconds relative to 0h on 1 January 1900. The
132:     integer part is in the first 32 bits and the fraction part in the
133:     last 32 bits. This format allows convenient multiple-precision

1900 found at line 145:
142:     overflow some time in 2036. Should NTP or SNTP be in use in 2036,
143:     some external means will be necessary to qualify time relative to
144:     1900 and time relative to 2036 (and other multiples of 136 years).
145:     Timestamped data requiring such qualification will be so precious
146:     that appropriate means should be readily available. There will exist


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1379.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 847:
844:  
845:  
846:     objective an MSL of at least 2000 seconds.  If there were no TIME-
847:     WAIT delay, the ultimate limit on transaction rate would be set by
848:     speed-of-light delays in the network and by the latency of host

2000 found at line 988:
985:        the official delay of 240 seconds, formula [1] implies a upper
986:        bound (as RTT -> 0) of TRmax = 268 Tps; with our target MSL of
987:        2000 sec, TRmax = 32 Tps.  These values are unacceptably low.
988:  
989:        To improve this transaction rate, we could use TCP timestamps to

2000 found at line 1079:
1076:        segment lifetime MSL.  For reasonable limiting values of R, Ts,
1077:        and MSL, formula [6] leads to a very low value of TRmax.  For
1078:        example, with MSL= 2000 secs, R=10**9 Bps, and Ts = 0.5 sec, TRmax
1079:        < 2*10**-3 Tps.
1080:  

2000 found at line 1136:
1133:             TRmax * MSL < 2**31
1134:  
1135:        For example, if MSL =  2000 seconds then TRmax < 10**6 Tp.  These
1136:        are acceptable limits for transaction processing.  However, if
1137:        they are not, we could augment CC with TCP timestamps to obtain

2000 found at line 1276:
1273:  
1274:       (a) no timestamps       2**31/MSL        MSL        3rd sequence
1275:                          e.g., MSL=2000 sec                      space
1276:                               TRmax = 10**6
1277:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1405.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 378:
375:     maps into
376:  
377:          C=xx; ADMD=yyy; PRMD=zzz; O=ooo; OU=uuu; DD.Dnet=net;
378:          DD.Mail-11=route::node::localpart;
379:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 384:
381:  
382:          xx  = country code of the gateway performing the conversion
383:          yyy = Admd of the gateway performing the conversion
384:          zzz = Prmd of the gateway performing the conversion
385:          ooo = Organisation of the gateway performing the conversion

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 474:
471:       it is connected to. In this case the mapping is trivial:
472:  
473:          C=xx; ADMD=yyy; PRMD=zzz; O=ooo; OU=uuu; DD.Dnet=net;
474:          DD.Mail-11=route::node::localpart;
475:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 477:
474:          DD.Mail-11=route::node::localpart;
475:  
476:     (see sect. 5.2 for explication of 'xx','yyy','zzz','ooo','uuu','net')
477:  
478:     maps into

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 487:
484:       described into section 5.4 apply:
485:  
486:          C=xx; ADMD=yyy; PRMD=www; DD.Dnet=net;
487:          DD.Mail-11=route::node::localpart;
488:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 492:
489:     maps into
490:  
491:          gwnode::gw%"C=xx;ADMD=yyy;PRMD=www;DD.Dnet=net;
492:          DD.Mail-11=route::node::localpart;"
493:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 595:
592:     maps into
593:  
594:         C=xx; ADMD=yyy; DD.Dnet=net;
595:         DD.Mail-11=route::gwnode::gw(p)(q)x400-text-address(q);
596:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1409.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 311:
308:                                          IAC SB AUTHENTICATION REPLY
309:                                          KERBEROS_V4 CLIENT|MUTUAL
310:                                          RESPONSE yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy
311:                                          IAC SE
312:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1411.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 163:
160:                                          IAC SB AUTHENTICATION REPLY
161:                                          KERBEROS_V4 CLIENT|MUTUAL
162:                                          RESPONSE yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy
163:                                          IAC SE
164:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1415.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 2814:
2811:        2         1016 Grouping threshold violation       |    503
2812:        2         1017 Inconsistent PDU request           |    503
2813:        2         2000 Association with user not allowed  |    532
2814:        2         2002 Unsupported service class          |    504
2815:        0         2003 Unsupported functional unit        |    211


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1416.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 318:
315:                                          IAC SB AUTHENTICATION REPLY
316:                                          KERBEROS_V4 CLIENT|MUTUAL
317:                                          RESPONSE yy yy yy yy yy yy yy yy
318:                                          IAC SE
319:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1417.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 156:
153:                         c/o Rapport Communication
154:                         3055 Q Street NW
155:                         Washington, DC 20007
156:                         US
157:  

2000 found at line 198:
195:     Rapport Communication
196:     3055 Q Street NW
197:     Washington, DC  20007
198:  
199:     Phone: +1 202-342-2727


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1421.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1148:
1145:      BAoTF1JTQSBEYXRhIFNlY3VyaXR5LCBJbmMuMQ8wDQYDVQQLEwZCZXRhIDExDTAL
1146:      BgNVBAsTBFRMQ0EwHhcNOTEwOTAxMDgwMDAwWhcNOTIwOTAxMDc1OTU5WjBRMQsw
1147:      CQYDVQQGEwJVUzEgMB4GA1UEChMXUlNBIERhdGEgU2VjdXJpdHksIEluYy4xDzAN
1148:      BgNVBAsTBkJldGEgMTEPMA0GA1UECxMGTk9UQVJZMHAwCgYEVQgBAQICArwDYgAw
1149:      XwJYCsnp6lQCxYykNlODwutF/jMJ3kL+3PjYyHOwk+/9rLg6X65B/LD4bJHtO5XW

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1150:
1147:      CQYDVQQGEwJVUzEgMB4GA1UEChMXUlNBIERhdGEgU2VjdXJpdHksIEluYy4xDzAN
1148:      BgNVBAsTBkJldGEgMTEPMA0GA1UECxMGTk9UQVJZMHAwCgYEVQgBAQICArwDYgAw
1149:      XwJYCsnp6lQCxYykNlODwutF/jMJ3kL+3PjYyHOwk+/9rLg6X65B/LD4bJHtO5XW
1150:      cqAz/7R7XhjYCm0PcqbdzoACZtIlETrKrcJiDYoP+DkZ8k1gCk7hQHpbIwIDAQAB
1151:      MA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBAgUAA38AAICPv4f9Gx/tY4+p+4DB7MV+tKZnvBoy8zgoMGOx

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1256:
1253:      BAoTF1JTQSBEYXRhIFNlY3VyaXR5LCBJbmMuMQ8wDQYDVQQLEwZCZXRhIDExDTAL
1254:      BgNVBAsTBFRMQ0EwHhcNOTEwOTAxMDgwMDAwWhcNOTIwOTAxMDc1OTU5WjBRMQsw
1255:      CQYDVQQGEwJVUzEgMB4GA1UEChMXUlNBIERhdGEgU2VjdXJpdHksIEluYy4xDzAN
1256:      BgNVBAsTBkJldGEgMTEPMA0GA1UECxMGTk9UQVJZMHAwCgYEVQgBAQICArwDYgAw
1257:      XwJYCsnp6lQCxYykNlODwutF/jMJ3kL+3PjYyHOwk+/9rLg6X65B/LD4bJHtO5XW

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1258:
1255:      CQYDVQQGEwJVUzEgMB4GA1UEChMXUlNBIERhdGEgU2VjdXJpdHksIEluYy4xDzAN
1256:      BgNVBAsTBkJldGEgMTEPMA0GA1UECxMGTk9UQVJZMHAwCgYEVQgBAQICArwDYgAw
1257:      XwJYCsnp6lQCxYykNlODwutF/jMJ3kL+3PjYyHOwk+/9rLg6X65B/LD4bJHtO5XW
1258:      cqAz/7R7XhjYCm0PcqbdzoACZtIlETrKrcJiDYoP+DkZ8k1gCk7hQHpbIwIDAQAB
1259:      MA0GCSqGSIb3DQEBAgUAA38AAICPv4f9Gx/tY4+p+4DB7MV+tKZnvBoy8zgoMGOx


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1422.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 1596:
1593:  
1594:     Validity ::=    SEQUENCE{
1595:             notBefore       UTCTime,
1596:             notAfter        UTCTime}
1597:  

UTCTime found at line 1597:
1594:     Validity ::=    SEQUENCE{
1595:             notBefore       UTCTime,
1596:             notAfter        UTCTime}
1597:  
1598:     SubjectPublicKeyInfo ::=        SEQUENCE{

UTCTime found at line 1640:
1637:             signature       AlgorithmIdentifier,
1638:             issuer          Name,
1639:             lastUpdate      UTCTime,
1640:             nextUpdate      UTCTime,
1641:             revokedCertificates

UTCTime found at line 1641:
1638:             issuer          Name,
1639:             lastUpdate      UTCTime,
1640:             nextUpdate      UTCTime,
1641:             revokedCertificates
1642:                             SEQUENCE OF CRLEntry OPTIONAL}

UTCTime found at line 1647:
1644:     CRLEntry ::= SEQUENCE{
1645:             userCertificate SerialNumber,
1646:             revocationDate UTCTime}
1647:  
1648:  References

century found at line 463:
460:     confusion relating to daylight savings time.  Note that UTCT
461:     expresses the value of a year modulo 100 (with no indication of
462:     century), hence comparisons involving dates in different centuries
463:     must be performed with care.
464:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1432.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 711:
708:            Digital Press
709:            buddenhagen@cecv01.enet.dec.com McGraw-Hill
710:            617-276-1498                    212-512-2000
711:            fax: 617-276-4314               1221 Ave. of the Americas
712:            Digital Equipment Corporation   New York, NY 10020


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1437.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 185:
182:     generation of the X.400 specification, X.400-1996.  This will give
183:     the community ample time to define a more complete specification for
184:     matter transport as part of X.400-2000, and possibly even a readily-
185:     implementable specification as part of X.400-2004, although some will
186:     no doubt argue that this would be too strong a break with tradition.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1440.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 332:
329:     The time stamp on the file as it appears at the sending site may be
330:     sent and applied to the copy at the receiving site.  The form is US
331:     mm/dd/yy and hh:mm:ss.  A time zone is optional.  If the time zone is
332:     omitted, local time is assumed.  If the DATE command is omitted, time
333:     and date of arrival are assumed.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1442.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 362:
359:            BEGIN
360:                TYPE NOTATION ::=
361:                              "LAST-UPDATED" value(Update UTCTime)
362:                              "ORGANIZATION" Text
363:                              "CONTACT-INFO" Text

UTCTime found at line 378:
375:                            | Revisions Revision
376:                Revision ::=
377:                              "REVISION" value(Update UTCTime)
378:                              "DESCRIPTION" Text
379:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1453.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 516:
513:  
514:     [XTP92]     Xpress Transfer Protocol, version 3.6, XTP Forum,
515:                 1900 State Street, Suite D, Santa Barbara, California
516:                 93101 USA, January 11, 1992.
517:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1458.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1026:
1023:     Reading, MA 01867
1024:  
1025:     Phone:  (617) 942-2000
1026:     EMail:  rebraudes@tasc.com
1027:  

2000 found at line 1035:
1032:     Reading, MA 01867
1033:  
1034:     Phone:  (617) 942-2000
1035:     EMail: gszabele@tasc.com
1036:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1465.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 499:
496:                  Switzerland
497:  
498:        <Update-info> ::= "Update: FORMAT=V3; DATE=" 'yymmdd' \
499:                              "; START=" 'yymmdd' \
500:                              ["; END=" 'yymmdd'] <CR>

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 500:
497:  
498:        <Update-info> ::= "Update: FORMAT=V3; DATE=" 'yymmdd' \
499:                              "; START=" 'yymmdd' \
500:                              ["; END=" 'yymmdd'] <CR>
501:                  The <Update-info> contains also the format identifier.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 501:
498:        <Update-info> ::= "Update: FORMAT=V3; DATE=" 'yymmdd' \
499:                              "; START=" 'yymmdd' \
500:                              ["; END=" 'yymmdd'] <CR>
501:                  The <Update-info> contains also the format identifier.
502:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 512:
509:  
510:                  The date of the last update of a document is given in
511:                  the form 'yymmdd'.
512:                  A start date must be set.  A document can be published
513:                  this way before the information in it is valid.  (This

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1673:
1670:                              | <DirectoryName> )
1671:  
1672:        <Update-info> ::= "Update: FORMAT=V3; DATE=" 'yymmdd' \
1673:                              "; START=" 'yymmdd' \
1674:                              ["; END=" 'yymmdd'] <CR>

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1674:
1671:  
1672:        <Update-info> ::= "Update: FORMAT=V3; DATE=" 'yymmdd' \
1673:                              "; START=" 'yymmdd' \
1674:                              ["; END=" 'yymmdd'] <CR>
1675:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1675:
1672:        <Update-info> ::= "Update: FORMAT=V3; DATE=" 'yymmdd' \
1673:                              "; START=" 'yymmdd' \
1674:                              ["; END=" 'yymmdd'] <CR>
1675:  
1676:        <window-size> ::= "RTS-window-size: " \


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1467.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 408:
405:  
406:     [6] Solensky, F., Internet Growth Charts, "big-internet" mailing
407:         list, munnari.oz.au:big-internet/nsf-netnumbers-<yymm>.ps
408:  
409:  9. Other relevant documents


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1470.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 247:
244:  
245:     DATE OF MOST RECENT UPDATE TO THIS CATALOG ENTRY
246:             <YYMMDD>
247:  
248:  Keywords

2000 found at line 4696:
4693:                 libraries), but this has not been done.  Curses is very
4694:                 slow and cpu intensive on VMS, but the tool has been
4695:                 run in a window on a VAXstation 2000.  Just don't try
4696:                 to run it on a terminal connected to a 11/750.
4697:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1479.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 752:
749:     We note that none of the IDPR protocols contain explicit provisions
750:     for dealing with an exhausted timestamp space.  As timestamp space
751:     exhaustion will not occur until well into the next century, we expect
752:     timestamp space viability to outlast the IDPR protocols.
753:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1486.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 745:
742:          Date: Sun, 11 Apr 1993 20:34:12 -0800
743:          Subject: Comments on "An Experiment in Remote Printing"
744:          Message-ID: <19930411203412000.123@tpd.org>
745:          MIME-Version: 1.0
746:          Content-Type: text/plain; charset=us-ascii


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1488.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 302:
299:  2.21.  UTC Time
300:  
301:     Values of type uTCTimeSyntax are encoded as if they were Printable
302:     Strings with the strings containing a UTCTime value.
303:  

UTCTime found at line 303:
300:  
301:     Values of type uTCTimeSyntax are encoded as if they were Printable
302:     Strings with the strings containing a UTCTime value.
303:  
304:  2.22.  Guide (search guide)

UTCTime found at line 377:
374:   <algorithm-id> ::= <oid> '#' <algorithm-parameters>
375:  
376:   <utc-time> ::= an encoded UTCTime value
377:  
378:   <hex-string> ::= <hex-digit> | <hex-digit> <hex-string>


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1500.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1950:
1947:                                         The text version is sent.
1948:  
1949:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1950:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1951:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1951:
1948:  
1949:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1950:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1951:  
1952:           help                          to get information on how to use


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1507.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 5111:
5108:  
5109:     Validity ::= SEQUENCE {
5110:             NotBefore       UTCTime,
5111:             NotAfter        UTCTime
5112:             }

UTCTime found at line 5112:
5109:     Validity ::= SEQUENCE {
5110:             NotBefore       UTCTime,
5111:             NotAfter        UTCTime
5112:             }
5113:  

UTCTime found at line 6297:
6294:     Version ::=      INTEGER { 1988(0)} SerialNumber ::= INTEGER Validity
6295:     ::=     SEQUENCE{
6296:             notBefore               UTCTime,
6297:             notAfter                UTCTime}
6298:  

UTCTime found at line 6298:
6295:     ::=     SEQUENCE{
6296:             notBefore               UTCTime,
6297:             notAfter                UTCTime}
6298:  
6299:     SubjectPublicKeyInfo  ::=  SEQUENCE {


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1512.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 243:
240:            FddiSMTStationIdType ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))
241:            -- The unique identifier for the FDDI station.  This is a
242:            -- string of 8 octets, represented as X' yy yy xx xx xx xx
243:            -- xx xx' with the low order 6 octet (xx) from a unique IEEE
244:            -- assigned address.  The high order two bits of the IEEE

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 248:
245:            -- address, the group address bit and the administration bit
246:            -- (Universal/Local) bit should both be zero.  The first two
247:            -- octets, the yy octets, are implementor-defined.
248:            --
249:            -- The representation of the address portion of the station id


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1519.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 401:
398:     3.2  Historic growth rates
399:  
400:        MM/YY     ROUTES                        MM/YY     ROUTES
401:                  ADVERTISED                              ADVERTISED
402:        ------------------------                -----------------------

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1318:
1315:     Ann Arbor, MI 48109
1316:  
1317:     EMail: jyy@merit.edu
1318:  
1319:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1527.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 793:
790:     ubiquitous as the current telephone network and provides all
791:     Americans with access to information in much the same way as public
792:     libraries were created for a similar purpose a century ago.
793:  
794:     Congress must understand that the NREN is not just a new technology

century found at line 875:
872:     regulated companies from becoming viable players.  We must realize
873:     that we are about to enter a power struggle for the control of the
874:     information resources of the 21st century that promises to be every
875:     bit as harsh and bruising as the power struggle for natural resources
876:     was at the end of the last century.

century found at line 877:
874:     information resources of the 21st century that promises to be every
875:     bit as harsh and bruising as the power struggle for natural resources
876:     was at the end of the last century.
877:  
878:     While the intentions of most appear to be good, as this study has


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1537.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 165:
162:     Example: zone file for foo.xx:
163:  
164:     pqr          MX 100  relay.yy.
165:     xyz          MX 100  relay.yy           (no trailing dot!)
166:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 166:
163:  
164:     pqr          MX 100  relay.yy.
165:     xyz          MX 100  relay.yy           (no trailing dot!)
166:  
167:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 177:
174:     When fully written out this stands for:
175:  
176:        pqr.foo.xx.  MX 100  relay.yy.
177:        xyz.foo.xx.  MX 100  relay.yy.foo.xx.   (name extension!)
178:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 178:
175:  
176:        pqr.foo.xx.  MX 100  relay.yy.
177:        xyz.foo.xx.  MX 100  relay.yy.foo.xx.   (name extension!)
178:  
179:  6. Missing secondary servers

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 256:
253:  
254:           foo.xx.      MX 100  gateway.xx.
255:                        MX 200  fallback.yy.
256:           *.foo.xx.    MX 100  gateway.xx.
257:                        MX 200  fallback.yy.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 258:
255:                        MX 200  fallback.yy.
256:           *.foo.xx.    MX 100  gateway.xx.
257:                        MX 200  fallback.yy.
258:  8. Hostnames
259:  

2000 found at line 89:
86:            86400 ; Refresh     24 hours
87:             7200 ; Retry        2 hours
88:          2592000 ; Expire      30 days
89:           345600 ; Minimum TTL  4 days
90:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1540.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1838:
1835:                                         The text version is sent.
1836:  
1837:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1838:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1839:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1839:
1836:  
1837:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1838:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1839:  
1840:           help                          to get information on how to use


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1555.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 155:
152:     In addition, Listserv usually maintains automatic archives of all
153:     postings to a list.  These archives, contained in the file "listname
154:     LOGyymm", do not contain the MIME headers, so all encoding
155:     information will be lost.  This is a limitation of the Listserv
156:     software.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1564.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 811:
808:  
809:     The following searches should be tried.  Unless otherwise stated, the
810:     "XXX" or "YYY" part of the search filter should be chosen in such a
811:     way as to return a single result.  Unless stated otherwise the
812:     results should return all attributes for the entry.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 848:
845:  
846:             objectClass=person AND
847:             (commonName=XXX* OR telephoneNumber=*YYY)
848:  
849:     75. Search returning all entries (i.e., 100 entries in the single

2000 found at line 527:
524:  
525:     42. If the DSA runs as a static server, state the start-up time for a
526:         DSA with a database of 20000 entries.  If this varies widely
527:         according to configuration options, give figures for the various
528:         options.  .......................................................

2000 found at line 709:
706:  
707:     i.  The tests should be made against an organisational database of
708:         20000 entries.  Some tests are against subsets of this data, and
709:         so the database should be set up according to the following
710:         instructions.

2000 found at line 713:
710:         instructions.
711:  
712:         Create an organisational DSA with 20000 entries below the
713:         organisation node.  Sub-divide this data into a number of
714:         organisational units, one of which should contain 1000 entries,

2000 found at line 808:
805:         unit.
806:  
807:     ii. An organisation subtree search, on the subtree of 20000 entries.
808:  
809:     The following searches should be tried.  Unless otherwise stated, the

2000 found at line 851:
848:  
849:     75. Search returning all entries (i.e., 100 entries in the single
850:         level search, and all 20000 entries in the subtree search:
851:  
852:             objectClass=*


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1578.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1946:
1943:     700 13th Street, NW
1944:     Suite 950
1945:     Washington, DC  20005
1946:     USA
1947:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1589.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1979:
1976:        presumably with negligible frequency error.
1977:  
1978:        #define MAXPHASE 512000      /* max phase error (us) */
1979:        #ifdef PPS_SYNC
1980:        #define MAXFREQ 100          /* max frequency error (ppm) */


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1593.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1088:
1085:                             response(6)
1086:  
1087:    --              enumeration values between 2000 and 3999 are reserved
1088:    --              for IP socket traces,
1089:  

2000 found at line 1149:
1146:                             testReq(26),
1147:  
1148:    --              enumeration values between 2000 and 3999 are reserved
1149:    --              for IP socket traces.
1150:                             ipTestFrame(2001),


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1594.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 379:
376:                                         The text version is sent.
377:  
378:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
379:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
380:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 380:
377:  
378:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
379:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
380:  
381:           help                          to get information on how to use

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 574:
571:        In addition, back issues of the Report are available for anonymous
572:        FTP from the host ftp.isi.edu in the in-notes/imr directory, with
573:        the file names in the form imryymm.txt, where yy is the last two
574:        digits of the year and mm two digits for the month.  For example,
575:        the July 1992 Report is in the file imr9207.txt.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1595.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 300:
297:  
298:             ifSpeed           Speed of line rate for SONET/SDH,
299:                               (e.g., 155520000 bps).
300:  
301:             ifPhysAddress     The value of the Circuit Identifier.

2000 found at line 357:
354:             ifSpeed           set to speed of SONET/SDH path
355:                               (e.g., an STS-1 path has a
356:                               rate of 50112000 bps.)
357:  
358:             ifPhysAddress     Circuit Identifier or OCTET STRING of


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1600.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1950:
1947:                                         The text version is sent.
1948:  
1949:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1950:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1951:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1951:
1948:  
1949:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1950:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1951:  
1952:           help                          to get information on how to use


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1607.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 12:
9:  
10:  
11:                        A VIEW FROM THE 21ST CENTURY
12:  
13:  Status of this Memo

century found at line 60:
57:  Cerf                                                            [Page 1]
58:  

59:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
60:  
61:  

century found at line 116:
113:  Cerf                                                            [Page 2]
114:  

115:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
116:  
117:  

century found at line 172:
169:  Cerf                                                            [Page 3]
170:  

171:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
172:  
173:  

century found at line 228:
225:  Cerf                                                            [Page 4]
226:  

227:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
228:  
229:  

century found at line 284:
281:  Cerf                                                            [Page 5]
282:  

283:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
284:  
285:  

century found at line 340:
337:  Cerf                                                            [Page 6]
338:  

339:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
340:  
341:  

century found at line 396:
393:  Cerf                                                            [Page 7]
394:  

395:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
396:  
397:  

century found at line 452:
449:  Cerf                                                            [Page 8]
450:  

451:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
452:  
453:  

century found at line 508:
505:  Cerf                                                            [Page 9]
506:  

507:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
508:  
509:  

century found at line 564:
561:  Cerf                                                           [Page 10]
562:  

563:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
564:  
565:  

century found at line 620:
617:  Cerf                                                           [Page 11]
618:  

619:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
620:  
621:  

century found at line 676:
673:  Cerf                                                           [Page 12]
674:  

675:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
676:  
677:  

century found at line 732:
729:  Cerf                                                           [Page 13]
730:  

731:  RFC 1607              A View from the 21st Century          1 April 1994
732:  
733:  

2000 found at line 663:
660:     transmission, switching and computing in a cost-effective
661:     way.  For a long time, this technology involved rather
662:     bulky equipment - some of the early 3DV clips from 2000-
663:     2005 showed rooms full of gear required to steer beams
664:     around. A very interesting combination of fiber optics and


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1608.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 240:
237:       provider   :: DistinguishedNameSyntax,
238:        /* points to network provider */
239:       onlineDate :: uTCTimeSyntax
240:        /* date when network got connected to the Internet */
241:  

UTCTime found at line 370:
367:       asGuardian :: DistinguishedNameSyntax, */
368:        /* DN of guardian of this AS */
369:       lastModifiedDate :: UTCtimeSyntax */
370:        /* important as routes change frequently */
371:  

UTCTime found at line 423:
420:           that the number was assigned to. This does not
421:           imply that assTo "owns" this number now. */
422:       assDate :: uTCTimeSyntax,
423:        /* date of assignment for this number */
424:       nicHandle :: CaseIgnoreStringSyntax,

UTCTime found at line 1048:
1045:     speed:                       id-nw-at.10    :numericString
1046:     traffic:                     id-nw-at.11    :numericString
1047:     configurationDate:           id-nw-at.12    :utcTime
1048:     configurationHistory:        id-nw-at.13    :caseIgnoreString
1049:     nodeName,nd:                 id-nw-at.14    :caseIgnoreString

UTCTime found at line 1071:
1068:  
1069:  
1070:     onlineDate:                  id-nw-at.27    :utcTime
1071:     ipNodeName,IPnd:             id-nw-at.28    :caseIgnoreString
1072:     protocol:                    id-nw-at.29    :caseIgnoreString

UTCTime found at line 1083:
1080:     assBy:                       id-nw-at.37    :DN
1081:     assTo:                       id-nw-at.38    :DN
1082:     assDate:                     id-nw-at.39    :utcTime
1083:     nicHandle:                   id-nw-at.40    :caseIgnoreString
1084:     relNwElement:                id-nw-at.41    :DN


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1609.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 588:
585:        /* (average) use in percent of nominal bandwidth
586:              [ this needs more specification later ] */
587:       configurationDate ::  uTCTimeSyntax,
588:        /* date when network was configured in current
589:              shape */


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1610.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1950:
1947:                                         The text version is sent.
1948:  
1949:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1950:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1951:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1951:
1948:  
1949:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1950:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1951:  
1952:           help                          to get information on how to use

century found at line 926:
923:               An Experimental protocol.
924:  
925:        1607 - A View from the 21st Century
926:  
927:               This is an information document and does not specify any


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1614.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1565:
1562:     The general format of a Gopher+ view descriptor is:
1563:  
1564:        xxx/yyy zzz: <nnnK>
1565:  
1566:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1575:
1572:  
1573:  
1574:     where xxx is a general type-of-information advisory, yyy is what
1575:     information format you need understand to interpret this information,
1576:     zzz is a language advisory (coded using POSIX definitions), and nnn

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1584:
1581:     the need to be consistent in the use of type/encoding attributes with
1582:     the MIME specification.  The Gopher+ Type Registry may thus
1583:     eventually disappear, together with the set of xxx/yyy values it
1584:     currently contains.)
1585:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1625.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 255:
252:               ( use = "wb", relation = "ro", term = 0 )
253:               AND
254:               ( use = "wb", relation = "ro", term = 2000 )
255:              )
256:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1632.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 3795:
3792:       association is rejected. However, if a chain operation is required
3793:       to	check the DN, the bind IS allowed.
3794:     - When comparing attributes of UTCtime syntax, if the seconds field
3795:       is	omitted, QUIPU does not	perform	the match correctly (i.e., the
3796:       seconds field in the attribute values should be ignored, but are

2000 found at line 1214:
1211:  	   1-800-257-OPEN (U.S.	and Canada)
1212:  	   1-612-482-6736 (worldwide)
1213:  	   FAX:	1-612-482-2000 (worldwide)
1214:  	   EMAIL: info@cdc.com
1215:  		    or


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1635.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 605:
602:     Most archive machines perform other functions as well.  Please
603:     respect the needs of their primary users and restrict your FTP access
604:     to non-prime hours (generally between 1900 and 0600 hours local time
605:     for that site) whenever possible.  It is especially important to
606:     remember this for sites located on another continent or across a


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1645.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 590:
587:      554 Error, failed (technical reason)
588:  
589:  4.4.6 HOLDuntil <YYMMDDHHMMSS> [+/-GMTdifference]
590:  
591:     The HOLDuntil command allows for the delayed delivery of a message,


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1646.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 428:
425:  
426:                  Command Rejected                     0X10030000
427:                  Intervention Required                0X08020000
428:                  Data Check                           0X10010000
429:                  Operation Check                      0X10050000

2000 found at line 431:
428:                  Data Check                           0X10010000
429:                  Operation Check                      0X10050000
430:                  Component Disconnected (LU)          0X08020000
431:  
432:     Note 2*:   Device End -  A positive response to the Server's data


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1647.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1355:
1352:                   0x00           Command Reject        0x10030000
1353:  
1354:                   0x01        Intervention Required    0x08020000
1355:  
1356:                   0x02           Operation Check       0x10050000


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1671.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 410:
407:     Phone:  +41 22 767-4967
408:     Fax:    +41 22 767-7155
409:     Telex:  419000 cer ch
410:     EMail: brian@dxcoms.cern.ch
411:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1679.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 95:
92:     examined below. The time frame for design, development, and
93:     deployment of HPN based systems and subsystems is 1996 into the
94:     twenty first century.
95:  
96:     Three general problem domains have been identified by the HPN working


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1689.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 6899:
6896:     vision of how information management must change in the 1990s to meet
6897:     the social and economic opportunities and challenges of the 21st
6898:     century.  Members of the Coalition Task Force include, among others,
6899:     higher education institutions, publishers, network service providers,
6900:     computer hardware, software, and systems companies, library networks

2000 found at line 421:
418:        archie did for the world of ftp.  A central server periodically
419:        scans the complete menu hierarchies of Gopher servers appearing on
420:        an ever-expanding list (over 2000 sites as of November 1993).  The
421:        resulting index is provided by a veronica server and can be
422:        accessed by any gopher client.

2000 found at line 471:
468:  
469:        There are currently (as of November 1993) some 500 registered WAIS
470:        databases with an estimated 2000 additional databases that are not
471:        yet registered.  There are approximately another 100 commercial
472:        WAIS databases.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1693.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 574:
571:         4  Baker          Boston                $849    Sportswear
572:         5  Baker          Washington          $3,100    Weights
573:         6  Baker          Washington           $2000    Camping Gear
574:         7  Baker          Atlanta               $290    Baseball Gloves
575:         8  Baker          Boston              $1,500    Sportswear


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1696.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 109:
106:  
107:  mdmMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
108:      LAST-UPDATED "9406120000Z"
109:      ORGANIZATION "IETF Modem Management Working Group"
110:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1698.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 513:
510:     31  80  {1         - RDN, [SET OF]
511:     30  80  {2         - AttributeValueAssertion, [SEQUENCE]
512:     06  03  5504yy     -- OID identifying an attribute named in
513:                        -- the Directory standard
514:                        -- which one is determined by yy

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 515:
512:     06  03  5504yy     -- OID identifying an attribute named in
513:                        -- the Directory standard
514:                        -- which one is determined by yy
515:     13  La  xxxxxx     -- [Printable string]
516:                        -- could be T61 string, with tag 14

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 522:
519:  
520:     The most likely attributes for an RDN have the following hex values
521:     for yy.
522:  
523:          CommonName               03

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 903:
900:  
901:  
902:        yy is exactly one octet (i.e., one hex digit per y) holding part
903:        of the length
904:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 918:
915:        innermost nest of construction)
916:  
917:        yy - as part of a value - a variable value, each y represents one
918:        hex digit
919:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1699.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 1050:
1047:  
1048:  
1049:  1607    Cerf         Apr 94   A VIEW FROM THE 21ST CENTURY
1050:  
1051:  This document is a composition of letters discussing a possible future.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1700.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 9905:
9902:  AB-00-03-00-00-00       6004    DEC Local Area Transport (LAT) - old
9903:  AB-00-04-00-xx-xx       ????    Reserved DEC customer private use
9904:  AB-00-04-01-xx-yy       6007    DEC Local Area VAX Cluster groups
9905:                                  Sys. Communication Architecture (SCA)
9906:  CF-00-00-00-00-00       9000    Ethernet Configuration Test protocol

1900 found at line 10173:
10170:   014.000.000.063   2422-650-23500 00   Tollpost-Globe AS     [OXG]
10171:   014.000.000.064   2422-330-02500 00   Tollpost-Globe AS     [OXG]
10172:   014.000.000.065   2422-350-01900 00   Tollpost-Globe AS     [OXG]
10173:   014.000.000.066   2422-410-00700 00   Tollpost-Globe AS     [OXG]
10174:   014.000.000.067   2422-539-06200 00   Tollpost-Globe AS     [OXG]

1900 found at line 10255:
10252:  
10253:  
10254:   014.000.000.131  2422-190-41900 00    T-G Airfreight AS     [OXG]
10255:   014.000.000.132  2422-616-16100 00    Tollpost-Globe AS     [OXG]
10256:   014.000.000.133  2422-150-50700-00    Tollpost-Globe Int.   [OXG]

1900 found at line 11112:
11109:  1569    621     ??              Something from Emulex
11110:  1571    623     UNKNOWN???      Running on a Novell Server
11111:  1900    076C    Xerox
11112:  2857    0b29    Site Lock
11113:  3113    0c29    Site Lock Applications

2000 found at line 2822:
2819:  tcp-id-port     1999/tcp   cisco identification port
2820:  tcp-id-port     1999/udp   cisco identification port
2821:  callbook        2000/tcp
2822:  callbook        2000/udp
2823:  dc              2001/tcp

2000 found at line 2823:
2820:  tcp-id-port     1999/udp   cisco identification port
2821:  callbook        2000/tcp
2822:  callbook        2000/udp
2823:  dc              2001/tcp
2824:  wizard          2001/udp    curry

2000 found at line 10120:
10117:   014.000.000.018   2624-522-80900 52   FGAN-SIEMENS-X25      [GB7]
10118:   014.000.000.019   2041-170-10000 00   SHAPE-X25             [JFW]
10119:   014.000.000.020   5052-737-20000 50   UQNET                 [AXH]
10120:   014.000.000.021   3020-801-00057 50   DMC-CRC1              [VXT]
10121:   014.000.000.022   2624-522-80329 02   FGAN-FGANFFMVAX-X25   [GB7]

2000 found at line 11572:
11569:  AMIGA-1200/LC040
11570:  AMIGA-1200/040
11571:  AMIGA-2000
11572:  AMIGA-2000/010
11573:  AMIGA-2000/020

2000 found at line 11573:
11570:  AMIGA-1200/040
11571:  AMIGA-2000
11572:  AMIGA-2000/010
11573:  AMIGA-2000/020
11574:  AMIGA-2000/EC030

2000 found at line 11574:
11571:  AMIGA-2000
11572:  AMIGA-2000/010
11573:  AMIGA-2000/020
11574:  AMIGA-2000/EC030
11575:  AMIGA-2000/030

2000 found at line 11575:
11572:  AMIGA-2000/010
11573:  AMIGA-2000/020
11574:  AMIGA-2000/EC030
11575:  AMIGA-2000/030
11576:  AMIGA-2000/LC040

2000 found at line 11576:
11573:  AMIGA-2000/020
11574:  AMIGA-2000/EC030
11575:  AMIGA-2000/030
11576:  AMIGA-2000/LC040
11577:  AMIGA-2000/EC040

2000 found at line 11577:
11574:  AMIGA-2000/EC030
11575:  AMIGA-2000/030
11576:  AMIGA-2000/LC040
11577:  AMIGA-2000/EC040
11578:  AMIGA-2000/040

2000 found at line 11578:
11575:  AMIGA-2000/030
11576:  AMIGA-2000/LC040
11577:  AMIGA-2000/EC040
11578:  AMIGA-2000/040
11579:  AMIGA-3000

2000 found at line 11579:
11576:  AMIGA-2000/LC040
11577:  AMIGA-2000/EC040
11578:  AMIGA-2000/040
11579:  AMIGA-3000
11580:  AMIGA-3000/EC040

2000 found at line 12014:
12011:  AIX/370
12012:  AIX-PS/2
12013:  BS-2000
12014:  CEDAR
12015:  CGW

2000 found at line 12356:
12353:  HAZELTINE-1520
12354:  HAZELTINE-1552
12355:  HAZELTINE-2000
12356:  HAZELTINE-ESPRIT
12357:  HITACHI-5601


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1705.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1166:
1163:     will be made.
1164:  
1165:     node.sub.domain.name    IN     TA   xx.yy.zz.aa.bb.cc.dd.ee
1166:  
1167:     ee.dd.cc.bb.aa.zz.yy.aa.in-addr.tcp IN  PTR node.sub.domain.name.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1168:
1165:     node.sub.domain.name    IN     TA   xx.yy.zz.aa.bb.cc.dd.ee
1166:  
1167:     ee.dd.cc.bb.aa.zz.yy.aa.in-addr.tcp IN  PTR node.sub.domain.name.
1168:  
1169:     Using these entries, along with the existing DNS A records, a

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1172:
1169:     Using these entries, along with the existing DNS A records, a
1170:     requesting node can determine where the remote node is located.  The
1171:     format xx.yy.zz is the IEEE assigned portion and aa.bb.cc.dd.ee is
1172:     the encoded machine serial number as described in section 4.1.
1173:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1712.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 208:
205:  @     IN    SOA     marsh.cs.curtin.edu.au. postmaster.cs.curtin.edu.au.
206:                  (
207:                          94070503        ; Serial (yymmddnn)
208:                          10800           ; Refresh (3 hours)
209:                          3600            ; Retry (1 hour)


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1713.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 104:
101:     University, but then Eric Wassenaar from Nikhef did a major rewrite
102:     and still seems to be actively working on improving it.  The program
103:     is available from ftp://ftp.nikhef.nl/pub/network/host_YYMMDD.tar.Z
104:     (YYMMDD is the date of the latest release).
105:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 105:
102:     and still seems to be actively working on improving it.  The program
103:     is available from ftp://ftp.nikhef.nl/pub/network/host_YYMMDD.tar.Z
104:     (YYMMDD is the date of the latest release).
105:  
106:     By default, host just maps host names to Internet addresses, querying


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1714.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 414:
411:     Example of use:
412:  
413:     -limit 2000
414:  
415:  2.3.3 schema


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1718.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 969:
966:     mailing list.  File names beginning with "1" (one) contain general
967:     IETF information.  This is only a partial list of the available
968:     files.  (The 'yymm' below refers to the year and month.)
969:  
970:     o  0mtg-agenda.txt                Agenda for the meeting

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 972:
969:  
970:     o  0mtg-agenda.txt                Agenda for the meeting
971:     o  0mtg-at-a-glance-yymm.txt      Logistics information for the meeting
972:     o  0mtg-rsvp.txt                  Meeting registration form
973:     o  0mtg-sites.txt                 Future meeting sites and dates

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 975:
972:     o  0mtg-rsvp.txt                  Meeting registration form
973:     o  0mtg-sites.txt                 Future meeting sites and dates
974:     o  0mtg-multicast-guide-yymm.txt  Schedule for MBone-multicast sessions
975:     o  0mtg-traveldirections-yymm.txt Directions to the meeting site
976:     o  0tao.txt                       This document

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 976:
973:     o  0mtg-sites.txt                 Future meeting sites and dates
974:     o  0mtg-multicast-guide-yymm.txt  Schedule for MBone-multicast sessions
975:     o  0mtg-traveldirections-yymm.txt Directions to the meeting site
976:     o  0tao.txt                       This document
977:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1720.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2230:
2227:                                         The text version is sent.
2228:  
2229:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
2230:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
2231:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2231:
2228:  
2229:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
2230:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
2231:  
2232:           help                          to get information on how to use


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1730.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2digit found at line 3334:
3331:     date            ::= date_text / <"> date_text <">
3332:  
3333:     date_day        ::= 1*2digit
3334:                         ;; Day of month
3335:  

2digit found at line 3337:
3334:                         ;; Day of month
3335:  
3336:     date_day_fixed  ::= (SPACE digit) / 2digit
3337:                         ;; Fixed-format version of date_day
3338:  

2digit found at line 3348:
3345:     date_year       ::= 4digit
3346:  
3347:     date_year_old   ::= 2digit
3348:                         ;; OBSOLETE, (year - 1900)
3349:  

2digit found at line 3657:
3654:     TEXT_CHAR       ::= <any CHAR except CR and LF>
3655:  
3656:     time            ::= 2digit ":" 2digit ":" 2digit
3657:                         ;; Hours minutes seconds
3658:  

1900 found at line 3349:
3346:  
3347:     date_year_old   ::= 2digit
3348:                         ;; OBSOLETE, (year - 1900)
3349:  
3350:     date_time       ::= <"> (date_time_new / date_time_old) <">


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1732.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 254:
251:  
252:        The format of dates and times has changed due to the impending end
253:        of the century.  Clients that fail to accept a four-digit year or
254:        a signed four-digit timezone value will not work properly with
255:        IMAP4.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1733.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 94:
91:     message or part of a message.  For example, a user connected to an
92:     IMAP4 server via a dialup link can determine that a message has a
93:     2000 byte text segment and a 40 megabyte video segment, and elect to
94:     fetch only the text segment.
95:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1739.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 1044:
1041:           1.EDU            Reserved Domain
1042:           2.EDU            Reserved Domain
1043:           22CF.EDU         22nd Century Foundation
1044:           3.EDU            Reserved Domain
1045:     ** There are 1499 more matches.  Show them? N


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1740.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 383:
380:        This field denotes the version of AppleSingle format in the event
381:        the format evolves (more fields may be added to the header).  The
382:        version described in this note is version $00020000 or
383:        0x00020000.
384:  

2000 found at line 384:
381:        the format evolves (more fields may be added to the header).  The
382:        version described in this note is version $00020000 or
383:        0x00020000.
384:  
385:     Filler

2000 found at line 590:
587:     #define F_fStationary   0x0800 /* file is a stationary pad */
588:     #define F_fNameLocked   0x1000 /* file can't be renamed by Finder */
589:     #define F_fHasBundle    0x2000 /* file has a bundle */
590:     #define F_fInvisible    0x4000 /* file's icon is invisible */
591:     #define F_fAlias        0x8000 /* file is an alias file (System 7) */

2000 found at line 624:
621:  
622:         uint32 magicNum; /* internal file type tag */
623:         uint32 versionNum; /* format version: 2 = 0x00020000 */
624:         uchar8 filler[16]; /* filler, currently all bits 0 */
625:         uint16 numEntries; /* number of entries which follow */

2000 found at line 752:
749:  
750:     /* Times are stored as a "signed number of seconds before of after
751:      * 12:00 a.m. (midnight), January 1, 2000 Greenwich Mean Time (GMT).
752:      * Applications must convert to their native date and time
753:      * conventions." Any unknown entries are set to 0x80000000


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1747.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 736:
733:  
734:                              sdlcPortAdminTopology == multipoint "
735:                      DEFVAL { 2000 }
736:                      ::= { sdlcPortAdminEntry 9 }
737:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1752.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1929:
1926:  
1927:     We recommend that a new IPng Transition (NGTRANS) Working Group be
1928:     formed with Bob Gilligan of Sun Microsystems and xxx of yyy as co-
1929:     chairs to design the mechanisms and procedures to support the
1930:     transition of the Internet from IPv4 to IPv6 and to give advice on


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1758.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 180:
177:                         c/o Rapport Communication
178:                         2721 N Street NW
179:                         Washington, DC 20007
180:                         US
181:  

2000 found at line 205:
202:     Rapport Communication
203:     2721 N Street NW
204:     Washington, DC  20007
205:  
206:     Phone: +1 202-342-2727


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1759.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1488:
1485:        -- on Unicode in the MIBenum range of 1000-1999.
1486:        -- See IANA Registry for vendor developed character sets
1487:        -- in the MIBenum range of 2000-xxxx.
1488:     }
1489:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1769.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 218:
215:     main product of the protocol, a special timestamp format has been
216:     established. NTP timestamps are represented as a 64-bit unsigned
217:     fixed-point number, in seconds relative to 0h on 1 January 1900. The
218:     integer part is in the first 32 bits and the fraction part in the
219:     last 32 bits. In the fraction part, the non-significant low-order

1900 found at line 248:
245:     overflow some time in 2036. Should NTP or SNTP be in use in 2036,
246:     some external means will be necessary to qualify time relative to
247:     1900 and time relative to 2036 (and other multiples of 136 years).
248:     Timestamped data requiring such qualification will be so precious
249:     that appropriate means should be readily available. There will exist


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1778.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 309:
306:  2.21.  UTC Time
307:  
308:     Values of type uTCTimeSyntax are encoded as if they were Printable
309:     Strings with the strings containing a UTCTime value.
310:  

UTCTime found at line 310:
307:  
308:     Values of type uTCTimeSyntax are encoded as if they were Printable
309:     Strings with the strings containing a UTCTime value.
310:  
311:  2.22.  Guide (search guide)

UTCTime found at line 399:
396:  
397:  
398:       <utc-time> ::= an encoded UTCTime value
399:  
400:       <hex-string> ::= <hex-digit> | <hex-digit> <hex-string>


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1780.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2118:
2115:                                         The text version is sent.
2116:  
2117:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
2118:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
2119:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2119:
2116:  
2117:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
2118:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
2119:  
2120:           help                          to get information on how to use


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1786.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2992:
2989:     USA
2990:     +1 313 936 2655
2991:     jyy@merit.edu
2992:  
2993:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 3694:
3691:  
3692:       Format:
3693:            <email-address> YYMMDD
3694:  
3695:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 3704:
3701:  
3702:            <email-address> should be the address of the person who made
3703:            the last change. YYMMDD denotes the date this change was made.
3704:  
3705:       Example:

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 3950:
3947:  
3948:          Format:
3949:               <email-address> YYMMDD
3950:  
3951:               <email-address> should be the address of the person who

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 3953:
3950:  
3951:               <email-address> should be the address of the person who
3952:               made the last change. YYMMDD denotes the date this change
3953:               was made.
3954:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 4170:
4167:  
4168:          Format:
4169:               <email-address> YYMMDD
4170:  
4171:               <email-address> should be the address of the person who

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 4173:
4170:  
4171:               <email-address> should be the address of the person who
4172:               made the last change. YYMMDD denotes the date this change
4173:               was made.
4174:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 4305:
4302:  
4303:          Format:
4304:               YYMMDD
4305:  
4306:               YYMMDD denotes the date this route was withdrawn.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 4307:
4304:               YYMMDD
4305:  
4306:               YYMMDD denotes the date this route was withdrawn.
4307:  
4308:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 4394:
4391:  
4392:          Format:
4393:               <email-address> YYMMDD
4394:  
4395:               <email-address> should be the address of the person who

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 4397:
4394:  
4395:               <email-address> should be the address of the person who
4396:               made the last change. YYMMDD denotes the date this change
4397:               was made.
4398:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1800.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1950:
1947:                                         The text version is sent.
1948:  
1949:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1950:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1951:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1951:
1948:  
1949:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
1950:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
1951:  
1952:           help                          to get information on how to use


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1806.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 8:
5:  
6:  Network Working Group                                          R. Troost
7:  Request for Comments: 1806                           New Century Systems
8:  Category: Experimental                                         S. Dorner
9:                                                     QUALCOMM Incorporated

century found at line 402:
399:  
400:     Rens Troost
401:     New Century Systems
402:     324 East 41st Street #804
403:     New York, NY, 10017 USA

century found at line 408:
405:     Phone: +1 (212) 557-2050
406:     Fax: +1 (212) 557-2049
407:     EMail: rens@century.com
408:  
409:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1807.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 318:
315:          mandatory field.   The ID field identifies the bibliographic
316:          record and is used in management of these records.
317:          Its format is "ID:: XXX//YYY", where XXX is the
318:          publisher-ID (the controlled symbol of the publisher)
319:          and YYY is the ID (e.g., report number) of the

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 320:
317:          Its format is "ID:: XXX//YYY", where XXX is the
318:          publisher-ID (the controlled symbol of the publisher)
319:          and YYY is the ID (e.g., report number) of the
320:          publication as assigned by the publisher.  This ID is
321:          typically printed on the cover, and may contain slashes.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 767:
764:          in its "ID::".
765:  
766:          Format:   END:: XXX//YYY
767:  
768:          Example:  END:: OUKS//CS-TR-91-123

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 778:
775:  
776:     In order to avoid conflicts among the symbols of the publishing
777:     organizations (the XXX part of the "ID:: XXX//YYY") it is suggested
778:     that the various organizations that publish reports (such as
779:     universities, departments, and laboratories) register their

2-digit found at line 348:
345:          The format for ENTRY date is "Month Day, Year".  The
346:          month must be alphabetic (spelled out).  The "Day" is a
347:          1- or 2-digit number.  The "Year" is a 4-digit number.
348:  
349:          Format:   ENTRY:: <date>

2-digit found at line 513:
510:  DATE (O) -- The publication date.  The formats are "Month Year"
511:          and "Month Day, Year".  The month must be alphabetic
512:          (spelled out).  The "Day" is a 1- or 2-digit number.  The
513:          "Year" is a 4- digit number.
514:  

1900 found at line 406:
403:          omitted, the record is assumed to be a new record and not
404:          a revision.  If the revision date is specified as 0, this
405:          is assumed to be January 1, 1900 (the previous RFC, used
406:          revision data of 0, 1, 2, 3, etc. this specification is for
407:          programs that might process records from RFC1357).


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1815.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 187:
184:        8 BASIC GREEK                      0370-03CF
185:        10 CYRILLIC                        0400-04FF
186:        32 GENERAL PUNCTUATION             2000-206F  See note 1, below.
187:        39 MATHEMATICAL OPERATORS          2200-22FF  See note 1, below.
188:        44 BOX DRAWING                     2500-257F


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1819.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 5855:
5852:      5   HelloLossFactor         Number of consecutively missed HELLO
5853:                                  messages before declaring link failure
5854:   2000   DefaultRecoveryTimeout  Interval between successive HELLOs
5855:                                  to/from active neighbors
5856:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1831.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 401:
398:  7.3 Program Number Assignment
399:  
400:     Program numbers are given out in groups of hexadecimal 20000000
401:     (decimal 536870912) according to the following chart:
402:  

2000 found at line 405:
402:  
403:                0 - 1fffffff   defined by rpc@sun.com
404:         20000000 - 3fffffff   defined by user
405:         40000000 - 5fffffff   transient
406:         60000000 - 7fffffff   reserved


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1848.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1881:
1878:          Content-Transfer-Encoding: base64
1879:  
1880:          AfR1WSeyLhy5AtcX0ktUVlbFC1vvcoCjYWy/yYjVj48eqzUVvGTGMsV6MdlynU
1881:          d4jcJgRnQIQvIxm2VRgH8W8MkAlul+RWGu7jnxjp0sNsU562+RZr0f4F3K3n4w
1882:          onUUP265UvvMj23RSTguZ/nl/OxnFM6SzDgV39V/i/RofqI=

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1994:
1991:        U6B13vzpE8wMSVefzaCTSpXRSCh08ceVEZrIYS53/CKZV2/Sga71pGNlux8MsJpY
1992:        Lwdj5Q3NKocg1LMngMo8yrMAe+avMjfOnhui49Xon1Gft+N5XDH/+wI9qxI9fkQv
1993:        NZVDlWIhCYEkxd5ke549tLkJjEqHQbgJW5C+K/uxdiD2dBt+nRCXcuO0Px3yKRyY
1994:        g/9BgTf36padSHuv48xBg5YaqaEWpEzLI0Qd31vAyP23rqiPhfBn6sjhQ2KrWhiF
1995:        2l3TV8kQsIGHHZUkaUbqkXJe6PEdWWhwsqCFPDdkpjzQRrTuJH6xleNUFg+CG1V+


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1861.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 766:
763:      554 Error, failed (technical reason)
764:  
765:  4.5.6 HOLDuntil <YYMMDDHHMMSS> [+/-GMTdifference]
766:  
767:     The HOLDuntil command allows for the delayed delivery of a message,

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1061:
1058:     the current transaction should be kept in the following format:
1059:  
1060:      YYMMDDHHMMSS+GMT   (example: 950925143501+7)
1061:  
1062:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1865.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 1564:
1561:  
1562:     START
1563:     GET ITU-1900
1564:     END
1565:  

2000 found at line 1745:
1742:                     Logistics Management Institute
1743:                     Attn. Library
1744:                     2000 Corporate Ridge
1745:                     McLean, Virginia, 22102-7805
1746:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1866.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1078:
1075:      <div class=chapter><h1>foo</h1><p>...</div>
1076:        => <H1>,"foo",</H1>,<P>,"..."
1077:      xxx <P ID=z23> yyy
1078:        => "xxx ",<P>," yyy
1079:      Let &alpha; &amp; &beta; be finite sets.

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1079:
1076:        => <H1>,"foo",</H1>,<P>,"..."
1077:      xxx <P ID=z23> yyy
1078:        => "xxx ",<P>," yyy
1079:      Let &alpha; &amp; &beta; be finite sets.
1080:        => "Let &alpha; & &beta; be finite sets."


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1876.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 103:
100:               exponent.
101:  
102:               Since 20000000m (represented by the value 0x29) is greater
103:               than the equatorial diameter of the WGS 84 ellipsoid
104:               (12756274m), it is therefore suitable for use as a

2000 found at line 219:
216:  
217:  rwy04L.logan-airport.boston.  LOC   42 21 28.764 N 71 00 51.617 W
218:                                      -44m 2000m
219:  
220:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1880.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2062:
2059:                                         The text version is sent.
2060:  
2061:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
2062:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
2063:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2063:
2060:  
2061:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
2062:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
2063:  
2064:           help                          to get information on how to use


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1888.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 859:
856:     Group Leader, Communications Systems      Phone:  +41 22 767-4967
857:     Computing and Networks Division           Fax:    +41 22 767-7155
858:     CERN                                      Telex:  419000 cer ch
859:     European Laboratory for Particle Physics  Email: brian@dxcoms.cern.ch
860:     1211 Geneva 23, Switzerland


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1889.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 518:
515:     Wallclock time (absolute time) is represented using the timestamp
516:     format of the Network Time Protocol (NTP), which is in seconds
517:     relative to 0h UTC on 1 January 1900 [5]. The full resolution NTP
518:     timestamp is a 64-bit unsigned fixed-point number with the integer
519:     part in the first 32 bits and the fractional part in the last 32

2000 found at line 1526:
1523:                        v                 ^
1524:     ntp_sec =0xb44db705 v               ^ dlsr=0x0005.4000 (    5.250s)
1525:     ntp_frac=0x20000000  v             ^  lsr =0xb705:2000 (46853.125s)
1526:       (3024992016.125 s)  v           ^
1527:     r                      v         ^ RR(n)

2000 found at line 1535:
1532:     A     0xb710:8000 (46864.500 s)
1533:     DLSR -0x0005:4000 (    5.250 s)
1534:     LSR  -0xb705:2000 (46853.125 s)
1535:     -------------------------------
1536:     delay 0x   6:2000 (    6.125 s)

2000 found at line 1537:
1534:     LSR  -0xb705:2000 (46853.125 s)
1535:     -------------------------------
1536:     delay 0x   6:2000 (    6.125 s)
1537:  
1538:             Figure 2: Example for round-trip time computation

2000 found at line 3182:
3179:      * Big-endian mask for version, padding bit and packet type pair
3180:      */
3181:     #define RTCP_VALID_MASK (0xc000 | 0x2000 | 0xfe)
3182:     #define RTCP_VALID_VALUE ((RTP_VERSION << 14) | RTCP_SR)
3183:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1890.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 293:
290:  
291:     The sampling frequency should be drawn from the set: 8000, 11025,
292:     16000, 22050, 24000, 32000, 44100 and 48000 Hz. (The Apple Macintosh
293:     computers have native sample rates of 22254.54 and 11127.27, which
294:     can be converted to 22050 and 11025 with acceptable quality by

2000 found at line 568:
565:  
566:     Sampling rate and channel count are contained in the payload. MPEG-I
567:     audio supports sampling rates of 32000, 44100, and 48000 Hz (ISO/IEC
568:     11172-3, section 1.1; "Scope"). MPEG-II additionally supports ISO/IEC
569:     11172-3 Audio...").


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1898.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1271:
1268:      3rWM5Ir3ier3/7WM5Ir36+v35v73ife1jOWK94n3/7T3/ffm5uD+7N339/f39/eq3ff3
1269:      9/eFiJK5tLizsoeSmpW7uLS8/7iio7Wisfv38biio7uyufv3tfv35uH+7N3d9/exuKX3
1270:      5+z3vuu4oqO7srnsvvz8/venoqO0v7al/7iio7WisYy+iv7s3ff3p6KjtL+2pf/wi7nw
1271:      3ard3Q==
1272:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1273:
1270:      5+z3vuu4oqO7srnsvvz8/venoqO0v7al/7iio7WisYy+iv7s3ff3p6KjtL+2pf/wi7nw
1271:      3ard3Q==
1272:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
1273:  
1274:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1328:
1325:     merchant-date: 19950121100505.nnn
1326:     merchant-response-code: failure/success/etc.
1327:     pr-hash: 7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==
1328:     pr-signed-hash:
1329:      a/0meaMHRinNVd8nq/fKsYg5AfTZZUCX0S3gkjAhZTmcrkp6RZvppmDd/P7lboFLFDBh

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1340:
1337:      rHzP5YqaMnk5iRBHvwKb5MaxKXGOOef5ms8M5W8lI2d0XPecH4xNBn8BMAJ6iSkZmszo
1338:      QfDeWgga48g2tqlA6ifZGp7daDR81lumtGMCvg==
1339:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
1340:  
1341:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1474:
1471:      mjD6ickhd+SQZhbRCNerlTiQGhuL4wUAxzGh8aHk2oXjoMpVzWw2EImPu5QaPEc36xgr
1472:      mNz8vCovDiuy3tZ42IGArxBweasLPLCbm0Y=
1473:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
1474:  
1475:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1482:
1479:     order-id: 12313424234242
1480:     merchant-amount: usd 10.00
1481:     pr-hash: 7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==
1482:     pr-signed-hash:
1483:      a/0meaMHRinNVd8nq/fKsYg5AfTZZUCX0S3gkjAhZTmcrkp6RZvppmDd/P7lboFLFDBh

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1490:
1487:     date: 19950121100505.nnn
1488:     merchant-signature:
1489:      v4qZMe2d7mUXztVdC3ZPMmMgYHlBA7bhR96LSehKP15ylqR/1KwwbBAX8CEqns55UIYY
1490:      GGMwPMGoF+GDPM7GlC6fReQ5wyvV1PnETSVO9/LAyRz0zzRYuyVueOjWDlr5
1491:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1593:
1590:      mjD6ickhd+SQZhbRCNerlTiQGhuL4wUAxzGh8aHk2oXjoMpVzWw2EImPu5QaPEc36xgr
1591:      mNz8vCovDiuy3tZ42IGArxBweasLPLCbm0Y=
1592:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
1593:  
1594:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1602:
1599:     order-id: 1231-3424-234242
1600:     merchant-amount: usd 10.00
1601:     pr-hash: 7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==
1602:     pr-signed-hash:
1603:      a/0meaMHRinNVd8nq/fKsYg5AfTZZUCX0S3gkjAhZTmcrkp6RZvppmDd/P7lboFLFDBh

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1692:
1689:      mjD6ickhd+SQZhbRCNerlTiQGhuL4wUAxzGh8aHk2oXjoMpVzWw2EImPu5QaPEc36xgr
1690:      mNz8vCovDiuy3tZ42IGArxBweasLPLCbm0Y=
1691:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
1692:  
1693:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1804:
1801:      mjD6ickhd+SQZhbRCNerlTiQGhuL4wUAxzGh8aHk2oXjoMpVzWw2EImPu5QaPEc36xgr
1802:      mNz8vCovDiuy3tZ42IGArxBweasLPLCbm0Y=
1803:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
1804:  
1805:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1821:
1818:     response-code: failure/success/etc.
1819:     order-id: 1231-3424-234242
1820:     pr-hash: 7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==
1821:     pr-signed-hash:
1822:      8zqw0ipqtLtte0tBz5/5VPNJPPonfTwkfZPbtuk5lqMykKDvThhO0ycrfT7eXrn/hLUC

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1827:
1824:     retrieval-reference-number: 432112344321
1825:     authorization-code: a12323
1826:     card-hash: 7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==
1827:     {
1828:     card-prefix: nnxxxx  [Returned if merchant is not full-PAN]

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1948:
1945:      mjD6ickhd+SQZhbRCNerlTiQGhuL4wUAxzGh8aHk2oXjoMpVzWw2EImPu5QaPEc36xgr
1946:      mNz8vCovDiuy3tZ42IGArxBweasLPLCbm0Y=
1947:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
1948:  
1949:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1958:
1955:     order-id: 12313424234242
1956:     merchant-amount: usd 10.00
1957:     pr-hash: 7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==
1958:  
1959:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2050:
2047:      CEUEvQhcmruopwEeehv+bejc3fDDZ23JKrbhlZ17lSvFR14PKFsi32pXFqTO0ej9GTc5
2048:      L6c8nM3tI1qdHNCe0N5f7ASdKS0tYSxAYJLIR6MqPrXjNJEaRx7Vu1odMlkgrzGOV1fo
2049:      5w33BQHK3U2h+1e5zYBeHY3ZYG4nmylYYXIye4xpuPN4QU0dGrWZoImYE44QOwjd5ozl
2050:      xulPBjj6cpEI/9wTwR3tpkBb4ZfYirxxnoj9JUkPK9Srv9iJ
2051:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2052:
2049:      5w33BQHK3U2h+1e5zYBeHY3ZYG4nmylYYXIye4xpuPN4QU0dGrWZoImYE44QOwjd5ozl
2050:      xulPBjj6cpEI/9wTwR3tpkBb4ZfYirxxnoj9JUkPK9Srv9iJ
2051:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
2052:  
2053:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2064:
2061:     response-code: failure/success/etc.
2062:     order-id: 1231-3424-234242
2063:     pr-hash: 7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==
2064:     pr-signed-hash:
2065:      IV8gWHx1f8eCkWsCsMOE3M8mnTbQ7IBBcEmyGDAwjdbaLu5Qm/bh06OX1npe2d3Hijxy

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2068:
2065:      IV8gWHx1f8eCkWsCsMOE3M8mnTbQ7IBBcEmyGDAwjdbaLu5Qm/bh06OX1npe2d3Hijxy
2066:      +X8vKcVE6l6To27u7A7UmGm+po9lCUSLxgtyqyn3jWhHZpc5NZpwoTCf2pAK
2067:     card-hash: 7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==
2068:     card-number: 4811123456781234
2069:     card-type: visa

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2151:
2148:     transaction: 123123213
2149:     date: 19950121100505.nnn
2150:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
2151:  
2152:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2193:
2190:            by their CyberCash application...
2191:     supported-versions: 08.win, 0.81win, 0.8mac
2192:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
2193:  
2194:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2359:
2356:  
2357:  
2358:      35XiC9Yn8flE4Va14UxMf2RCR1B/XoV6AEd64KwPeCYyOYvwbRcYpRMBXFLyYgWM+ME1
2359:      +yp7c66SrCBhW4Q8AJYQ+5j5uyO7uKyyq7OhrV0IMpRDPjiQXZMooLZOifJPmpvJ66hC
2360:      VZuWMuA6LR+TJzWUm4sUP9Zb6zMQShedUyOPrtw1vkJXU1vZ5aI8OJAgUcLEitcD+dsY

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2360:
2357:  
2358:      35XiC9Yn8flE4Va14UxMf2RCR1B/XoV6AEd64KwPeCYyOYvwbRcYpRMBXFLyYgWM+ME1
2359:      +yp7c66SrCBhW4Q8AJYQ+5j5uyO7uKyyq7OhrV0IMpRDPjiQXZMooLZOifJPmpvJ66hC
2360:      VZuWMuA6LR+TJzWUm4sUP9Zb6zMQShedUyOPrtw1vkJXU1vZ5aI8OJAgUcLEitcD+dsY
2361:      Df4CzA00fC10POkJ58HZB/pSBfUrHAa+IqMHyZkV/HBi9TjTwmktJi+8T9orXS0jSvor

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2502:
2499:      lw51IHbmo1Jj7H6wyNnRpEjy4tM73jcosBfGeQDHxgyH1uaiFNr2D+WvmuYo7eun2dsy
2500:      Wve2O/FwicWHvkg5aDPsgOjzetsn1JCNZzbW
2501:     $$-CyberCash-End-7Tm/djB05pLIw3JAyy5E7A==-$$
2502:  
2503:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2591:
2588:     x-opaque: [if can't decrypt]
2589:      9/eFiJK5tLizsoeSmpW7uLS8/7iio7Wisfv38biio7uyufv3tfv35uH+7N3d9/exuKX3
2590:      5+z3vuu4oqO7srnsvvz8/venoqO0v7al/7iio7WisYy+iv7s3ff3p6KjtL+2pf/wi7nw
2591:  
2592:     #####################################################################

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2653:
2650:     x-opaque: [if can't decrypt]
2651:      9/eFiJK5tLizsoeSmpW7uLS8/7iio7Wisfv38biio7uyufv3tfv35uH+7N3d9/exuKX3
2652:      5+z3vuu4oqO7srnsvvz8/venoqO0v7al/7iio7WisYy+iv7s3ff3p6KjtL+2pf/wi7nw
2653:  
2654:     #####################################################################


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1900.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 8:
5:  
6:  Network Working Group                                       B. Carpenter
7:  Request for Comments: 1900                                    Y. Rekhter
8:  Category: Informational                                              IAB
9:                                                             February 1996

1900 found at line 60:
57:  Carpenter & Rekhter          Informational                      [Page 1]
58:  

59:  RFC 1900                 Renumbering Needs Work            February 1996
60:  
61:  

1900 found at line 116:
113:  Carpenter & Rekhter          Informational                      [Page 2]
114:  

115:  RFC 1900                 Renumbering Needs Work            February 1996
116:  
117:  

1900 found at line 172:
169:  Carpenter & Rekhter          Informational                      [Page 3]
170:  

171:  RFC 1900                 Renumbering Needs Work            February 1996
172:  
173:  

1900 found at line 207:
204:     Phone:  +41 22 767-4967
205:     Fax:    +41 22 767-7155
206:     Telex:  419000 cer ch
207:     EMail: brian@dxcoms.cern.ch
208:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1902.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2027:
2024:     Several clauses defined in this document use the UTC Time format:
2025:  
2026:       YYMMDDHHMMZ
2027:  
2028:       where: YY - last two digits of year

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2029:
2026:       YYMMDDHHMMZ
2027:  
2028:       where: YY - last two digits of year
2029:              MM - month (01 through 12)
2030:              DD - day of month (01 through 31)

UTCTime found at line 136:
133:  BEGIN
134:      TYPE NOTATION ::=
135:                    "LAST-UPDATED" value(Update UTCTime)
136:                    "ORGANIZATION" Text
137:                    "CONTACT-INFO" Text

UTCTime found at line 152:
149:                  | Revisions Revision
150:      Revision ::=
151:                    "REVISION" value(Update UTCTime)
152:                    "DESCRIPTION" Text
153:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1910.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1702:
1699:  
1700:  usecMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
1701:      LAST-UPDATED "9601120000Z"
1702:      ORGANIZATION "IETF SNMPv2 Working Group"
1703:      CONTACT-INFO


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1917.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 259:
256:     should be noted that careful extrapolations of the current trends
257:     suggest that the address space will be exhausted early in the next
258:     century.
259:  
260:  3. Problem


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1920.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2174:
2171:                                         The text version is sent.
2172:  
2173:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
2174:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
2175:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 2175:
2172:  
2173:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
2174:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
2175:  
2176:           help                          to get information on how to use

1900 found at line 851:
848:               An Experimental protocol.
849:  
850:        1900 - Renumbering Needs Work
851:  
852:               This is an information document and does not specify any


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1941.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 2826:
2823:     700 13th Street, NW
2824:     Suite 950
2825:     Washington, DC  20005
2826:     Phone:  202-434-8954
2827:     EMail:  sellers@quest.arc.nasa.gov


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1945.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2-digit found at line 500:
497:         Specific repetition: "<n>(element)" is equivalent to
498:         "<n>*<n>(element)"; that is, exactly <n> occurrences of
499:         (element). Thus 2DIGIT is a 2-digit number, and 3ALPHA is a
500:         string of three alphabetic characters.
501:  

2digit found at line 500:
497:         Specific repetition: "<n>(element)" is equivalent to
498:         "<n>*<n>(element)"; that is, exactly <n> occurrences of
499:         (element). Thus 2DIGIT is a 2-digit number, and 3ALPHA is a
500:         string of three alphabetic characters.
501:  

2digit found at line 872:
869:         asctime-date   = wkday SP date3 SP time SP 4DIGIT
870:  
871:         date1          = 2DIGIT SP month SP 4DIGIT
872:                          ; day month year (e.g., 02 Jun 1982)
873:         date2          = 2DIGIT "-" month "-" 2DIGIT

2digit found at line 874:
871:         date1          = 2DIGIT SP month SP 4DIGIT
872:                          ; day month year (e.g., 02 Jun 1982)
873:         date2          = 2DIGIT "-" month "-" 2DIGIT
874:                          ; day-month-year (e.g., 02-Jun-82)
875:         date3          = month SP ( 2DIGIT | ( SP 1DIGIT ))

2digit found at line 876:
873:         date2          = 2DIGIT "-" month "-" 2DIGIT
874:                          ; day-month-year (e.g., 02-Jun-82)
875:         date3          = month SP ( 2DIGIT | ( SP 1DIGIT ))
876:                          ; month day (e.g., Jun  2)
877:  

2digit found at line 879:
876:                          ; month day (e.g., Jun  2)
877:  
878:         time           = 2DIGIT ":" 2DIGIT ":" 2DIGIT
879:                          ; 00:00:00 - 23:59:59
880:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1967.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 276:
273:                    +-----+----....................----+
274:  
275:        where:  C0 and 80 are representative LZS-DCP headers; nn, xx, yy,
276:                and zz are values determined by the packet's context.
277:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1980.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
century found at line 301:
298:              ALT="Our products">
299:        <AREA SHAPE=RECT COORDS="0,51,100,100 HREF="technology.html"
300:              ALT="Technology for the next century">
301:        </MAP>
302:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1997.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 130:
127:     690 may define research, educational and commercial community values
128:     that may be used for policy routing as defined by the operators of
129:     that AS using community attribute values 0x02B20000 through
130:     0x02B2FFFF).
131:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc1999.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 14:
11:                        Request for Comments Summary
12:  
13:                           RFC Numbers 1900-1999
14:  
15:  Status of This Memo

1900 found at line 18:
15:  Status of This Memo
16:  
17:     This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 1900
18:     through RFCs 1999.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
19:     provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify

1900 found at line 60:
57:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 1]
58:  

59:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
60:  
61:  

1900 found at line 116:
113:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 2]
114:  

115:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
116:  
117:  

1900 found at line 172:
169:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 3]
170:  

171:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
172:  
173:  

1900 found at line 228:
225:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 4]
226:  

227:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
228:  
229:  

1900 found at line 284:
281:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 5]
282:  

283:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
284:  
285:  

1900 found at line 340:
337:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 6]
338:  

339:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
340:  
341:  

1900 found at line 396:
393:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 7]
394:  

395:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
396:  
397:  

1900 found at line 452:
449:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 8]
450:  

451:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
452:  
453:  

1900 found at line 508:
505:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 9]
506:  

507:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
508:  
509:  

1900 found at line 564:
561:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 10]
562:  

563:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
564:  
565:  

1900 found at line 620:
617:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 11]
618:  

619:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
620:  
621:  

1900 found at line 676:
673:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 12]
674:  

675:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
676:  
677:  

1900 found at line 732:
729:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 13]
730:  

731:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
732:  
733:  

1900 found at line 788:
785:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 14]
786:  

787:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
788:  
789:  

1900 found at line 844:
841:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 15]
842:  

843:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
844:  
845:  

1900 found at line 900:
897:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 16]
898:  

899:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
900:  
901:  

1900 found at line 956:
953:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 17]
954:  

955:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
956:  
957:  

1900 found at line 1012:
1009:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 18]
1010:  

1011:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
1012:  
1013:  

1900 found at line 1068:
1065:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 19]
1066:  

1067:  RFC 1999                  Summary of 1900-1999              January 1997
1068:  
1069:  

1900 found at line 1095:
1092:  
1093:  
1094:  1900    Carpenter    Feb 96   Renumbering Needs Work
1095:  
1096:  Hosts in an IP network are identified by IP addresses, and the IP


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2000.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 3070:
3067:                                         The text version is sent.
3068:  
3069:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
3070:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
3071:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 3071:
3068:  
3069:           file /ftp/rfc/rfcnnnn.yyy     where 'nnnn' is the RFC number.
3070:                                         and 'yyy' is 'txt' or 'ps'.
3071:  
3072:           help                          to get information on how to use

1900 found at line 1264:
1261:               This memo.
1262:  
1263:        1999 - Request for Comments Summary RFC Numbers 1900-1999
1264:  
1265:               This is an information document and does not specify any

2000 found at line 8:
5:  
6:  Network Working Group                        Internet Architecture Board
7:  Request for Comments: 2000                             J. Postel, Editor
8:  Obsoletes: 1920, 1880, 1800, 1780, 1720,                   February 1997
9:  1610, 1600, 1540, 1500, 1410, 1360,

2000 found at line 60:
57:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 1]
58:  

59:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
60:  
61:  

2000 found at line 116:
113:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 2]
114:  

115:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
116:  
117:  

2000 found at line 172:
169:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 3]
170:  

171:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
172:  
173:  

2000 found at line 228:
225:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 4]
226:  

227:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
228:  
229:  

2000 found at line 284:
281:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 5]
282:  

283:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
284:  
285:  

2000 found at line 340:
337:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 6]
338:  

339:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
340:  
341:  

2000 found at line 396:
393:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 7]
394:  

395:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
396:  
397:  

2000 found at line 452:
449:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 8]
450:  

451:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
452:  
453:  

2000 found at line 508:
505:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                     [Page 9]
506:  

507:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
508:  
509:  

2000 found at line 564:
561:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 10]
562:  

563:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
564:  
565:  

2000 found at line 620:
617:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 11]
618:  

619:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
620:  
621:  

2000 found at line 676:
673:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 12]
674:  

675:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
676:  
677:  

2000 found at line 732:
729:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 13]
730:  

731:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
732:  
733:  

2000 found at line 788:
785:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 14]
786:  

787:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
788:  
789:  

2000 found at line 844:
841:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 15]
842:  

843:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
844:  
845:  

2000 found at line 900:
897:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 16]
898:  

899:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
900:  
901:  

2000 found at line 956:
953:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 17]
954:  

955:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
956:  
957:  

2000 found at line 1012:
1009:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 18]
1010:  

1011:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1012:  
1013:  

2000 found at line 1068:
1065:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 19]
1066:  

1067:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1068:  
1069:  

2000 found at line 1124:
1121:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 20]
1122:  

1123:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1124:  
1125:  

2000 found at line 1180:
1177:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 21]
1178:  

1179:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1180:  
1181:  

2000 found at line 1236:
1233:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 22]
1234:  

1235:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1236:  
1237:  

2000 found at line 1260:
1257:               A Proposed Standard protocol.
1258:  
1259:        2000 - Internet Official Protocol Standards
1260:  
1261:               This memo.

2000 found at line 1292:
1289:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 23]
1290:  

1291:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1292:  
1293:  

2000 found at line 1348:
1345:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 24]
1346:  

1347:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1348:  
1349:  

2000 found at line 1404:
1401:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 25]
1402:  

1403:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1404:  
1405:  

2000 found at line 1460:
1457:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 26]
1458:  

1459:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1460:  
1461:  

2000 found at line 1516:
1513:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 27]
1514:  

1515:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1516:  
1517:  

2000 found at line 1572:
1569:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 28]
1570:  

1571:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1572:  
1573:  

2000 found at line 1628:
1625:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 29]
1626:  

1627:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1628:  
1629:  

2000 found at line 1684:
1681:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 30]
1682:  

1683:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1684:  
1685:  

2000 found at line 1740:
1737:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 31]
1738:  

1739:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1740:  
1741:  

2000 found at line 1796:
1793:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 32]
1794:  

1795:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1796:  
1797:  

2000 found at line 1852:
1849:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 33]
1850:  

1851:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1852:  
1853:  

2000 found at line 1859:
1856:  Protocol   Name                                      Status    RFC STD *
1857:  ========   =====================================     ======== ==== === =
1858:  --------   Internet Official Protocol Standards      Req      2000   1
1859:  --------   Assigned Numbers                          Req      1700   2
1860:  --------   Host Requirements - Communications        Req      1122   3

2000 found at line 1908:
1905:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 34]
1906:  

1907:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1908:  
1909:  

2000 found at line 1964:
1961:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 35]
1962:  

1963:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
1964:  
1965:  

2000 found at line 2020:
2017:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 36]
2018:  

2019:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2020:  
2021:  

2000 found at line 2076:
2073:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 37]
2074:  

2075:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2076:  
2077:  

2000 found at line 2132:
2129:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 38]
2130:  

2131:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2132:  
2133:  

2000 found at line 2188:
2185:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 39]
2186:  

2187:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2188:  
2189:  

2000 found at line 2244:
2241:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 40]
2242:  

2243:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2244:  
2245:  

2000 found at line 2300:
2297:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 41]
2298:  

2299:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2300:  
2301:  

2000 found at line 2356:
2353:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 42]
2354:  

2355:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2356:  
2357:  

2000 found at line 2412:
2409:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 43]
2410:  

2411:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2412:  
2413:  

2000 found at line 2468:
2465:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 44]
2466:  

2467:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2468:  
2469:  

2000 found at line 2524:
2521:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 45]
2522:  

2523:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2524:  
2525:  

2000 found at line 2580:
2577:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 46]
2578:  

2579:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2580:  
2581:  

2000 found at line 2636:
2633:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 47]
2634:  

2635:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2636:  
2637:  

2000 found at line 2692:
2689:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 48]
2690:  

2691:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2692:  
2693:  

2000 found at line 2748:
2745:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 49]
2746:  

2747:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2748:  
2749:  

2000 found at line 2804:
2801:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 50]
2802:  

2803:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2804:  
2805:  

2000 found at line 2860:
2857:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 51]
2858:  

2859:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2860:  
2861:  

2000 found at line 2916:
2913:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 52]
2914:  

2915:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2916:  
2917:  

2000 found at line 2972:
2969:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 53]
2970:  

2971:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
2972:  
2973:  

2000 found at line 3028:
3025:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 54]
3026:  

3027:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
3028:  
3029:  

2000 found at line 3084:
3081:  Internet Architecture Board Standards Track                    [Page 55]
3082:  

3083:  RFC 2000                   Internet Standards              February 1997
3084:  
3085:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2007.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 1156:
1153:  
1154:  Access-Type: gopher
1155:  URL: <URL:gopher://gopher.cic.net:2000/11/hunt>
1156:  
1157:  Access-Type: www


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2015.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 153:
150:  
151:       hIwDY32hYGCE8MkBA/wOu7d45aUxF4Q0RKJprD3v5Z9K1YcRJ2fve87lMlDlx4Oj
152:       eW4GDdBfLbJE7VUpp13N19GL8e/AqbyyjHH4aS0YoTk10QQ9nnRvjY8nZL3MPXSZ
153:       g9VGQxFeGqzykzmykU6A26MSMexR4ApeeON6xzZWfo+0yOqAq6lb46wsvldZ96YA
154:       AABH78hyX7YX4uT1tNCWEIIBoqqvCeIMpp7UQ2IzBrXg6GtukS8NxbukLeamqVW3


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2025.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
UTCTime found at line 751:
748:             context-id       Random-Integer,   -- see Section 6.3
749:             pvno             BIT STRING,       -- protocol version number
750:             timestamp        UTCTime OPTIONAL, -- mandatory for SPKM-2
751:             randSrc          Random-Integer,
752:             targ-name        Name,

UTCTime found at line 923:
920:             context-id       Random-Integer,  -- see Section 6.3
921:             pvno [0]         BIT STRING OPTIONAL, -- prot. version number
922:             timestamp        UTCTime OPTIONAL, -- mandatory for SPKM-2
923:             randTarg         Random-Integer,
924:             src-name [1]     Name OPTIONAL,

UTCTime found at line 2159:
2156:             context-id       Random-Integer,
2157:             pvno             BIT STRING,
2158:             timestamp        UTCTime OPTIONAL, -- mandatory for SPKM-2
2159:             randSrc          Random-Integer,
2160:             targ-name        Name,

UTCTime found at line 2248:
2245:  
2246:             pvno [0]         BIT STRING OPTIONAL,
2247:             timestamp        UTCTime OPTIONAL, -- mandatory for SPKM-2
2248:             randTarg         Random-Integer,
2249:             src-name [1]     Name OPTIONAL,

UTCTime found at line 2459:
2456:  
2457:     Validity ::= SEQUENCE {
2458:             notBefore         UTCTime,
2459:             notAfter          UTCTime
2460:     }

UTCTime found at line 2460:
2457:     Validity ::= SEQUENCE {
2458:             notBefore         UTCTime,
2459:             notAfter          UTCTime
2460:     }
2461:  

UTCTime found at line 2493:
2490:             signature               AlgorithmIdentifier,
2491:             issuer                  Name,
2492:             thisUpdate              UTCTime,
2493:             nextUpdate              UTCTime OPTIONAL,
2494:             revokedCertificates     SEQUENCE OF SEQUENCE {

UTCTime found at line 2494:
2491:             issuer                  Name,
2492:             thisUpdate              UTCTime,
2493:             nextUpdate              UTCTime OPTIONAL,
2494:             revokedCertificates     SEQUENCE OF SEQUENCE {
2495:                  userCertificate       CertificateSerialNumber,

UTCTime found at line 2497:
2494:             revokedCertificates     SEQUENCE OF SEQUENCE {
2495:                  userCertificate       CertificateSerialNumber,
2496:                  revocationDate        UTCTime           } OPTIONAL
2497:     }
2498:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2028.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 320:
317:     Digital Equipment Corporation
318:     1401 H Street NW
319:     Washington DC 20005
320:  
321:     Phone:  +1 202 383 5615


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2030.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 321:
318:     main product of the protocol, a special timestamp format has been
319:     established. NTP timestamps are represented as a 64-bit unsigned
320:     fixed-point number, in seconds relative to 0h on 1 January 1900. The
321:     integer part is in the first 32 bits and the fraction part in the
322:     last 32 bits. In the fraction part, the non-significant low order can

1900 found at line 362:
359:     64-bit field will overflow some time in 2036 (second 4,294,967,296).
360:     Should NTP or SNTP be in use in 2036, some external means will be
361:     necessary to qualify time relative to 1900 and time relative to 2036
362:     (and other multiples of 136 years). There will exist a 200-picosecond
363:     interval, henceforth ignored, every 136 years when the 64-bit field

1900 found at line 375:
372:        following convention: If bit 0 is set, the UTC time is in the
373:        range 1968-2036 and UTC time is reckoned from 0h 0m 0s UTC on 1
374:        January 1900. If bit 0 is not set, the time is in the range 2036-
375:        2104 and UTC time is reckoned from 6h 28m 16s UTC on 7 February
376:        2036. Note that when calculating the correspondence, 2000 is not a

2000 found at line 377:
374:        January 1900. If bit 0 is not set, the time is in the range 2036-
375:        2104 and UTC time is reckoned from 6h 28m 16s UTC on 7 February
376:        2036. Note that when calculating the correspondence, 2000 is not a
377:        leap year. Note also that leap seconds are not counted in the
378:        reckoning.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2048.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 738:
735:  
736:       To: ietf-types@iana.org
737:       Subject: Registration of MIME media type XXX/YYY
738:  
739:       MIME media type name:


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2050.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 638:
635:     [RFC 1814] Gerich, E., "Unique Addresses are Good", June 1995.
636:  
637:     [RFC 1900] Carpenter, B., and Y. Rekhter, "Renumbering Needs Work",
638:        February 1996.
639:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2052.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 420:
417:          Errors", RFC 1912, February 1996.
418:  
419:     RFC 1900: Carpenter, B., and Y. Rekhter, "Renumbering Needs Work",
420:          RFC 1900, February 1996.
421:  

1900 found at line 421:
418:  
419:     RFC 1900: Carpenter, B., and Y. Rekhter, "Renumbering Needs Work",
420:          RFC 1900, February 1996.
421:  
422:     RFC 1920: Postel, J., "INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS",


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2060.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2digit found at line 3782:
3779:  date            ::= date_text / <"> date_text <">
3780:  
3781:  date_day        ::= 1*2digit
3782:                      ;; Day of month
3783:  

2digit found at line 3785:
3782:                      ;; Day of month
3783:  
3784:  date_day_fixed  ::= (SPACE digit) / 2digit
3785:                      ;; Fixed-format version of date_day
3786:  

2digit found at line 4101:
4098:  TEXT_CHAR       ::= <any CHAR except CR and LF>
4099:  
4100:  time            ::= 2digit ":" 2digit ":" 2digit
4101:                      ;; Hours minutes seconds
4102:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2062.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2digit found at line 330:
327:                     ::= partial
328:  
329:     date_year_old   ::= 2digit
330:                         ;; (year - 1900)
331:  

1900 found at line 331:
328:  
329:     date_year_old   ::= 2digit
330:                         ;; (year - 1900)
331:  
332:     date_time_old   ::= <"> date_day_fixed "-" date_month "-" date_year


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2063.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 716:
713:  
714:                           start time = 1            start time = 1
715:     Usage record N:       flow count = 2000      flow count = 2000 (done)
716:  
717:                           start time = 1            start time = 5

2000 found at line 725:
722:  
723:     In the continuing flow case, the same flow was reported when its
724:     count was 2000, and again at 3000:  the total count to date is 3000.
725:     In the OLD/NEW case, the old flow had a count of 2000.  Its record
726:  

2000 found at line 726:
723:     In the continuing flow case, the same flow was reported when its
724:     count was 2000, and again at 3000:  the total count to date is 3000.
725:     In the OLD/NEW case, the old flow had a count of 2000.  Its record
726:  
727:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2068.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2-digit found at line 772:
769:       Specific repetition: "<n>(element)" is equivalent to
770:       "<n>*<n>(element)"; that is, exactly <n> occurrences of (element).
771:       Thus 2DIGIT is a 2-digit number, and 3ALPHA is a string of three
772:       alphabetic characters.
773:  

2digit found at line 772:
769:       Specific repetition: "<n>(element)" is equivalent to
770:       "<n>*<n>(element)"; that is, exactly <n> occurrences of (element).
771:       Thus 2DIGIT is a 2-digit number, and 3ALPHA is a string of three
772:       alphabetic characters.
773:  

2digit found at line 1163:
1160:            asctime-date = wkday SP date3 SP time SP 4DIGIT
1161:  
1162:            date1        = 2DIGIT SP month SP 4DIGIT
1163:                           ; day month year (e.g., 02 Jun 1982)
1164:            date2        = 2DIGIT "-" month "-" 2DIGIT

2digit found at line 1165:
1162:            date1        = 2DIGIT SP month SP 4DIGIT
1163:                           ; day month year (e.g., 02 Jun 1982)
1164:            date2        = 2DIGIT "-" month "-" 2DIGIT
1165:                           ; day-month-year (e.g., 02-Jun-82)
1166:            date3        = month SP ( 2DIGIT | ( SP 1DIGIT ))

2digit found at line 1167:
1164:            date2        = 2DIGIT "-" month "-" 2DIGIT
1165:                           ; day-month-year (e.g., 02-Jun-82)
1166:            date3        = month SP ( 2DIGIT | ( SP 1DIGIT ))
1167:                           ; month day (e.g., Jun  2)
1168:  

2digit found at line 1170:
1167:                           ; month day (e.g., Jun  2)
1168:  
1169:            time         = 2DIGIT ":" 2DIGIT ":" 2DIGIT
1170:                           ; 00:00:00 - 23:59:59
1171:  

2digit found at line 7652:
7649:  
7650:            warning-value = warn-code SP warn-agent SP warn-text
7651:            warn-code  = 2DIGIT
7652:            warn-agent = ( host [ ":" port ] ) | pseudonym
7653:                            ; the name or pseudonym of the server adding

1900 found at line 1083:
1080:     for TCP connections on that port of that host, and the Request-URI
1081:     for the resource is abs_path. The use of IP addresses in URL's SHOULD
1082:     be avoided whenever possible (see RFC 1900 [24]). If the abs_path is
1083:     not present in the URL, it MUST be given as "/" when used as a
1084:     Request-URI for a resource (section 5.1.2).

1900 found at line 8249:
8246:  
8247:     [24] Carpenter, B., and Y. Rekhter, "Renumbering Needs Work", RFC
8248:     1900, IAB, February 1996.
8249:  
8250:     [25] Deutsch, P., "GZIP file format specification version 4.3." RFC

2000 found at line 8453:
8450:    o  HTTP/1.1 clients and caches should assume that an RFC-850 date
8451:       which appears to be more than 50 years in the future is in fact
8452:       in the past (this helps solve the "year 2000" problem).
8453:  
8454:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2071.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 738:
735:        December 1995.
736:  
737:   [16] Carpenter, B., and Y. Rekhter, "Renumbering Needs Work", RFC 1900,
738:        February 1996.
739:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2072.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 206:
203:     Many discussions of renumbering emphasize interactions among
204:     organizations' numbering plans and those of the global Internet
205:     [RFC1900].  There can be equally strong motivations for renumbering
206:     in organizations that never connect to the global Internet.
207:  

1900 found at line 209:
206:     in organizations that never connect to the global Internet.
207:  
208:     According to RFC1900, "Unless and until viable alternatives are
209:     developed, extended deployment of Classless Inter-Domain Routing
210:     (CIDR) is vital to keep the Internet routing system alive and to

1900 found at line 2606:
2603:    February 1996.
2604:  
2605:    [RFC1900] Carpenter, B., and Y. Rekhter, "Renumbering Needs Work", RFC
2606:    1900, February 1996.
2607:  

1900 found at line 2607:
2604:  
2605:    [RFC1900] Carpenter, B., and Y. Rekhter, "Renumbering Needs Work", RFC
2606:    1900, February 1996.
2607:  
2608:    [RPS] Alaettinoglu, C., Bates, T., Gerich, E., Terpstra, M., and C.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2074.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 2041:
2038:         From [RFC1831]:
2039:  
2040:         Program numbers are given out in groups of hexadecimal 20000000
2041:         (decimal 536870912) according to the following chart:
2042:  

2000 found at line 2045:
2042:  
2043:                       0 - 1fffffff   defined by rpc@sun.com
2044:                20000000 - 3fffffff   defined by user
2045:                40000000 - 5fffffff   transient
2046:                60000000 - 7fffffff   reserved


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2077.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 315:
312:           Subject: model data file
313:  
314:           I1ZSTUwgVjEuMCBhc2NpaQojIFRoaXMgZmlsZSB3YXMgIGdlbmVyY...
315:           byBDb21tdW5pY2F0aW9ucwojIGh0dHA6Ly93d3cuY2hhY28uY29tC...
316:           IyB1c2VkIGluIHJvb20gMTkyICh0ZXN0IHJvb20pCiAgIAojIFRvc...


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2095.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 131:
128:       C: A0001 AUTHENTICATE CRAM-MD5
129:       S: + PDE4OTYuNjk3MTcwOTUyQHBvc3RvZmZpY2UucmVzdG9uLm1jaS5uZXQ+
130:       C: dGltIGI5MTNhNjAyYzdlZGE3YTQ5NWI0ZTZlNzMzNGQzODkw
131:       S: A0001 OK CRAM authentication successful
132:  

'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 161:
158:        AUTHENTICATE command (or the similar POP3 AUTH command), yielding
159:  
160:             dGltIGI5MTNhNjAyYzdlZGE3YTQ5NWI0ZTZlNzMzNGQzODkw
161:  
162:  


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2096.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 134:
131:  
132:  ipForward MODULE-IDENTITY
133:      LAST-UPDATED "9609190000Z"     -- Thu Sep 26 16:34:47 PDT 1996
134:      ORGANIZATION "IETF OSPF Working Group"
135:      CONTACT-INFO

1900 found at line 147:
144:      DESCRIPTION
145:              "The MIB module for the display of CIDR multipath IP Routes."
146:      REVISION      "9609190000Z"
147:      DESCRIPTION
148:              "Revisions made by the OSPF WG."


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2099.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 14:
11:                        Request for Comments Summary
12:  
13:                           RFC Numbers 2000-2099
14:  
15:  Status of This Memo

2000 found at line 18:
15:  Status of This Memo
16:  
17:     This RFC is a slightly annotated list of the 100 RFCs from RFC 2000
18:     through RFCs 2099.  This is a status report on these RFCs.  This memo
19:     provides information for the Internet community.  It does not specify

2000 found at line 60:
57:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 1]
58:  

59:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
60:  
61:  

2000 found at line 116:
113:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 2]
114:  

115:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
116:  
117:  

2000 found at line 172:
169:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 3]
170:  

171:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
172:  
173:  

2000 found at line 228:
225:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 4]
226:  

227:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
228:  
229:  

2000 found at line 284:
281:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 5]
282:  

283:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
284:  
285:  

2000 found at line 340:
337:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 6]
338:  

339:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
340:  
341:  

2000 found at line 396:
393:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 7]
394:  

395:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
396:  
397:  

2000 found at line 452:
449:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 8]
450:  

451:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
452:  
453:  

2000 found at line 508:
505:  Elliott                      Informational                      [Page 9]
506:  

507:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
508:  
509:  

2000 found at line 564:
561:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 10]
562:  

563:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
564:  
565:  

2000 found at line 620:
617:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 11]
618:  

619:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
620:  
621:  

2000 found at line 676:
673:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 12]
674:  

675:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
676:  
677:  

2000 found at line 732:
729:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 13]
730:  

731:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
732:  
733:  

2000 found at line 788:
785:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 14]
786:  

787:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
788:  
789:  

2000 found at line 844:
841:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 15]
842:  

843:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
844:  
845:  

2000 found at line 900:
897:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 16]
898:  

899:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
900:  
901:  

2000 found at line 956:
953:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 17]
954:  

955:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
956:  
957:  

2000 found at line 1012:
1009:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 18]
1010:  

1011:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
1012:  
1013:  

2000 found at line 1068:
1065:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 19]
1066:  

1067:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
1068:  
1069:  

2000 found at line 1124:
1121:  Elliott                      Informational                     [Page 20]
1122:  

1123:  RFC 2099                  Summary of 2000-2099                March 1997
1124:  
1125:  

2000 found at line 1144:
1141:  
1142:  
1143:  2000    I.A.B.       Feb 97   INTERNET OFFICIAL PROTOCOL STANDARDS
1144:  
1145:  This memo describes the state of standardization of protocols used in


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2101.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
1900 found at line 353:
350:  
351:        Changing providers is just one possible reason for renumbering.
352:        The informational document [RFC 1900] shows why renumbering is an
353:        increasingly frequent event.  Both DHCP [RFC 1541] and PPP [RFC
354:        1661] promote the use of dynamic address allocation.

1900 found at line 534:
531:     solutions for renumbering sites.  The need to contain the  overhead
532:     in a rapidly growing Internet routing system is likely to make
533:     renumbering  more and more common [RFC 1900].
534:  
535:     The need to scale the Internet routing system, and the use of CIDR as

1900 found at line 632:
629:     Protocol", RFC 1825, September 1995.
630:  
631:     [RFC 1900] Carpenter, B., and Y. Rekhter, "Renumbering Needs Work",
632:     RFC 1900, February 1996.
633:  

1900 found at line 633:
630:  
631:     [RFC 1900] Carpenter, B., and Y. Rekhter, "Renumbering Needs Work",
632:     RFC 1900, February 1996.
633:  
634:     [RFC 1918] Rekhter, Y.,  Moskowitz, B., Karrenberg, D., de Groot, G.


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2109.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
'yy' on a line without 'yyyy' found at line 1054:
1051:     date value in a fixed-length variant format in place of Max-Age:
1052:  
1053:     Wdy, DD-Mon-YY HH:MM:SS GMT
1054:  
1055:     Note that the Expires date format contains embedded spaces, and that


+=+=+=+=+= File rfc2116.txt +=+=+=+=+= 
2000 found at line 4132:
4129:        * MAIL.X-OD V2.3
4130:  
4131:        * MAIL.2000 V1.2, AKOM
4132:  
4133:        * MS-Mail

2000 found at line 5393:
5390:           1-800-257-OPEN (U.S. and Canada)
5391:           1-612-482-6736 (worldwide)
5392:           FAX: 1-612-482-2000 (worldwide)
5393:           EMAIL: info@cdc.com
5394:             or


Appendix D:  Discussion of HTTP 1.0 Issues

HTTP:

The main IETF standards-track document on the HTTP protocol is RFC2068
on HTTP 1.1.  It notes that historically three different date formats
have been used, and that one of them uses a two-digit year field.  In
section 3.3.1 it requires HTTP 1.1 implementations to generate this
RFC1123 format:
 
     Sun, 06 Nov 1994 08:49:37 GMT  ; RFC 822, updated by RFC 1123
 
instead of this RFC850 format:

     Sunday, 06-Nov-94 08:49:37 GMT ; RFC 850, obsoleted by RFC 1036
 
Unfortunately, many existing servers, serving on the order of one
fifth of the current HTTP traffic, send dates in the ambiguous RFC850
format.
 
Section 19.3 of the RFC2068 says this:
 
  o  HTTP/1.1 clients and caches should assume that an RFC-850 date
     which appears to be more than 50 years in the future is in fact
     in the past (this helps solve the "year 2000" problem).
 
This avoids a "stale cache" problem, which would cause the user to see
out-of-date data.
 
But to avoid unnecessary delays and bandwidth indicated in Scenario 2
below, this should be extended to say that a date which appears to be
more than 50 years in the past may be assumed to be in the future, if
a future date is legal for that field.
 
Scenario 3 indicates that servers may also want to follow these rules.
 
 
Here is some more background and justification for these arguments.
 
The following headers use full dates:
 
HTTP/1.0:
        Date:
        Expires:                # can be in the future
        If-Modified-Since:      # required to be in the past
        Last-Modified:          # required to be in the past
        Retry-After:            # can be in the future, also takes
                                # relative time - number of seconds
 
HTTP/1.1:
        If-Range:
        If-Unmodified-Since:    # required to be in the past
 
Note that clock skew between hosts can lead to confusion here - see
the RFC for details.
 
Here are some scenarios of the implications of RFC850 dates, which
include stale caches, unnecessary requests for things, which are
validly cached, delays for the user, extra bandwidth, and presenting
incorrect information to the user.
 
Some cases involve comparisons with the current time, and others may
involve comparisons between dates from different sources.  The
abbreviation "/99" is used to imply an RFC850 date with the value
"99" for the year.
 
 
RFC850 date from server
 
Scenario 1:
        If a client gets an Expires /99 date after the year 2000, it
        should interpret it as 1999, to avoid ending up with a stale
        cache entry.
 
        This is as already specified in RFC2068.
 
Scenario 2:
        If a client gets an Expires /00 date before the year 2000, and
        subsequently is faced with a choice to either retrieve the
        document from its cache or look for an updated copy, it may
        interpret it as the year 2000, to avoid the unnecessary delay
        and bandwidth of an extra request.
 
 
RFC850 date from client
 
Scenario 3:
        If a server gets an If-Modified-Since /99 date from a client
        after the year 2000, it should interpret it as 1999 when
        comparing with the local modification date, in order to
        possibly avoid sending a full GET response rather than a
        HEAD response.
 
        Note that an If-Modified-Since header must never be in the
        future.
 
 









