Working Group Name                                         Moneeb Gohar
Internet Draft                             Kyungpook National University
Intended status:  Informational                             Seok Joo Koh
Expires: February 2010                     Kyungpook National University
                                                        August 25, 2009

     Fast Tree Join for Seamless Multicast Handover in Wireless/Mobile
                                 Networks
                       draft-gohar-fmipv6-ftj-00.txt

Status of this Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted to IETF in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79. This document may not be modified,
   and derivative works of it may not be created, except to publish it
   as an RFC and to translate it into languages other than English.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html

   This Internet-Draft will expire on February 25,2010

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2009 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors. All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents in effect on the date of
   publication of this document (http://trustee.ietf.org/license-info).
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.






Gohar and Koh         Expires February 25, 2010                [Page 1]

Internet-Draft        Fast Tree Join for FMIPv6             August 2009


Abstract

   This draft describes a fast handover mechanism to provide seamless
   multicast services in the wireless/mobile networks based on the Fast
   Mobile IPv6 (FMIPv6). When a mobile node (MN) moves from one access
   router to another, it may encounter data loss. In the tree joining
   case of the existing scheme, there is a problem of buffer overflow
   during the packet forwarding from Previous Access Router (PAR) to New
   Access Router (NAR), in which many packet losses may occur due to the
   buffer overflow.  In order to reduce this buffer overflow and the
   concerned packet losses, we propose a new scheme of a fast tree join
   for seamless multicast handover, which allows the NAR to join the
   multicast tree before the FMIPv6 handover is completed. In the
   proposed scheme, we consider the two specific cases: 1) the short
   tree joining time, in which no packet forwarding will be required and
   thus NAR can receive the multicast data from an upstream multicast
   router before the FMIPv6 handover is completed, 2) the long tree
   joining time, in which the packet forwarding will be required and
   thus NAR will receive the multicast data after the FMIPv6 handover.

Table of Contents

   1.Introduction.................................................. 2
   2.Conventions used in this document............................. 6
   3.Fast Tree Join for FMIPv6 Multicast Handover...................6
   4.Conclusions....................................................8
   5.References.....................................................9
      5.1.Normative References......................................9
      5.2.Informative References....................................9
   Author's Addresses...............................................10


1. Introduction

   The wireless data communication technologies are rapidly growing in
   the communication industry [1]. Therefore, the movement or handover
   in the wireless networks becomes one of the crucial issues to be
   addressed [2]. The movement in the wireless/mobile networks can be
   managed by using the Mobile IP (MIPv6) [3]. The MIPv6 was designed to
   manage the movement of MN from one access router to another. To
   improve the handover performance of MIPv6, the Fast Mobile IP
   (FMIPv6) was proposed [4].

     In the modern era of data communication technology, the users have
   demanded the multicast services in the wireless mobile networks, such
   as Internet broadcasting and multiple video/audio conferencing. Some
   schemes are needed to support the mobile multicasting such as

Gohar and Koh
                      Expires February 25, 2010                [Page 2]

Internet-Draft        Fast Tree Join for FMIPv6             August 2009


   construction of a multicast tree, the delivery of multicast data, and
   joining and leaving the multicast group [5].

      This internet draft, describes a fast join to multicast tree for
   seamless multicast handover to reduce handover latency with packet
   losses and the signaling costs required for multicast handover.

   The FMIPv6 is an extension of MIPv6 [4]. FMIPv6 can support the fast
   handover, and reduce the handover latency and data loss. FMIPv6 can
   also be used for fast handover of multicast sessions. Some works for
   multicast fast handover have been proposed. One of these schemes the
   work in [6] proposed to use the multicast group information option in
   the fast binding update message (FBU) and in the handover initiation
   message (HI). In the scheme, the PAR transmits the multicast group
   information to the NAR through FBU, which may has taken a long join
   delay. Recently, another scheme has been proposed for efficient
   multicast [1], which introduced the new multicast options in the
   mobility header to record the multicast group information. This
   scheme also establishes a tunnel between PAR and NAR.

     We note that a scheme of FMIPv6-based multicast handover that was
   proposed in [7], where the ''Fast handover based on Mobile IP for
   Multicasting'' (denoted by FMIP-M) scheme, as presented in Fig. 1

























Gohar and Koh
                      Expires February 25, 2010                [Page 3]

Internet-Draft        Fast Tree Join for FMIPv6             August 2009


     MN         PAR                   NAR           HA         RP

     |           |                     |             |          |

     |--RtSolPr->|                     |             |          |

     |<-PrRtAdv--|                     |             |          |

     |---FBU---->|                     |             |          |

     |           |----HI-------------> |             |          |

     |           |<---HACK------------ |             |          |

     | <--FBACK--|---FBACK--->         |             |          |

     Disconnect  |                     |             |          |

     |           |=Path Extension=====>|             |          |

     |           |=Packet Forwarding==>|             |          |

     |           |                     |--------PIM JOIN------->|

     |           |                     |<-------PIM JOIN ACK----|

     |           |                     |<===Multicast Tree Data=|

     |           |<--HO COMPLETE------ |             |          |

     Connect     |                     |             |          |

     |----------UNA------------------> |             |          |

     |           |                     |----BU------>|          |

     |           |                     |<----BU ACK--|          |

     |           |                     |<=Tunneling==|          |

     |           |<---HO COMPLETE----- |             |          |

     |<====Multicast Data Delivery=====|             |          |

                      Figure 1. Existing FMIP-M scheme



Gohar and Koh
                      Expires February 25, 2010                [Page 4]

Internet-Draft        Fast Tree Join for FMIPv6             August 2009


     In the FMIP-M scheme, MN receives an L2 trigger and sends a Router
   Solicitation for Proxy (RtSolPr) to the PAR. The PAR replies to MN
   with a Proxy Router Advertisement (PrRtAdv). MN then obtains a new
   care of address (nCoA). The fast handover procedure actually starts
   by sending a Fast Binding Update (FBU) message towards PAR that
   contains a multicast group address. Given the information contained
   in the FBU message, PAR sends a Handover Initiation (HI) message to
   NAR. The HI message contains the information about Multicast Status
   (M-Status), Hop Count (HC) from the multicast tree, and multicast
   group address. The NAR will check the validity and uniqueness of the
   nCoA. After that, NAR can reply to the PAR with a Handover
   acknowledgement (HACK) message. It contains the M-Dec field, which
   indicates a specific method used by NAR for multicast handover. In
   addition, the HACK message may also contain the information of the
   sequence number of data packets that will be maintained in the new
   access router's buffer (denoted by SEQNARBuff in [7]), which is used
   only when the M-Dec is set to 3. This SEQNARBuff represents the
   sequence number of the first packet that will be stored in the NAR
   buffer. The PAR then sends the Fast Binding Acknowledge (F-BACK)
   message to MN and NAR both.

     After sending the F-BACK message, the PAR begins to forward the
   multicast data packets to NAR, in which the four specific cases can
   be considered, as described in [7], which will be indicated by using
   the M-Dec field of the HACK message. These four schemes can be
   summarized as follows:

. Case 1 (Path Extension), in which the multicast service path is
  extended from PAR to NAR. In this case, after the PAR received this
  decision from the HACK message, the PAR started to forward the
  multicast packets to NAR. This packet forwarding is performed until
  NAR requests  PAR to terminate the path extension;
. Case 2 (Bi-directional tunneling from Home Agent (HA)), in which in
  this case, the PAR starts to forward the multicast packets (received
  via the bi-directional tunneling) from the HA to NAR. This packet
  forwarding will be continued until PAR receives the HO COMPLETE
  message from NAR.
. Case 3 (Remote Subscription), in which NAR sends a tree join message
  (PIM JOIN) to the upstream multicast source, which is indicated as
  Rendezvous Point (RP) in Fig. 1. For the join message, the RP will
  respond to NAR with a Join Ack (PIM JOIN-ACK) message, and then the
  multicast data packets are now delivered to the NAR by using the
  newly configured multicast tree. In this case, the PAR will also
  forward the multicast packets, if any, to NAR.

Gohar and Koh
                      Expires February 25, 2010                [Page 5]

Internet-Draft        Fast Tree Join for FMIPv6             August 2009


. Case 4, in which it is assumed that one of the users in the NAR
  region has already joined the same multicast group and thus the NAR
  is receiving the corresponding group data packets. So, in this case,
  the PAR had only to forward the previously buffered multicast packets
  to NAR.
   On the other hand, when MN moves to the new network, it will send an
   Unsolicitated Neighbor Advertisement (UNA) message to the NAR to
   indicate that the handover has been completed, as done in the FMIPv6.

       It is noted that the existing scheme may incur the 'buffer
   overflow problem' in the buffer of PAR during the tree join process.
   That is, if the tree join by NAR to RP takes a long time, the buffer
   of PAR for packet forwarding may overflow and thus a significant
   amount of data packets could be lost. In addition, the existing
   scheme also tends to give have the large signaling and packet
   forwarding costs.

     In this draft, we propose a fast tree join scheme for seamless
   multicast handover, in which the NAR will try to join the multicast
   tree as soon as the handover event is detected (i.e., when NAR
   receives the HI message from the PAR). The proposed scheme can also
   reduce the signaling costs associated with the multicast handover.



2. Conventions used in this document

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in RFC-2119 Error!
   Reference source not found..



3. Fast Tree Join for FMIPv6 Multicast Handover

In this draft, we describe a fast tree join (FTJ) scheme for seamless
multicast handover based on the FMIPv6 protocol, which is denoted by
FTJ-FMIP in this paper. The proposed scheme focuses on how to combine
the multicast service with the existing fast handover procedure for a
fast and reliable multicast packet delivery. In the proposed scheme, we
consider the following three cases: Path Extension method, Bi-
Directional Tunneling, and Remote Subscription. The fourth case, in
which NAR has already joined the tree, is not considered, since it is
too much trivial.


Gohar and Koh
                      Expires February 25, 2010                [Page 6]

Internet-Draft        Fast Tree Join for FMIPv6             August 2009


In the tree joining case, we consider the following two scenarios: (a)
short tree join, in which the tree join process is completed before NAR
receive the FBACK message from PAR, and (b) long tree join, in which the
tree join is completed after NAR receives the FBACK message. In the
first case (short tree join), the PAR does not need to forward the data
packets to NAR, and instead NAR will receive the multicast data packets
directly from the multicast tree, and then send the HO COMPLETE message
to PAR On the other hand, in the second case, the NAR will receive some
of multicast data packets from PAR, until the tree join process is
completed.

      Figure 2 shows the basic operation of the proposed FMIPv6-FTJ
scheme.

Upon receiving an indication from a wireless link-layer trigger, MN
initiates the handover by sending a message RtSolPr that contains both
the FBU option and the multicast address. After receiving the RtSolPr
message, PAR sends the PrRtAdv message to MN. At the same time, PAR will
send the HI message to the NAR.

      When receiving the HI message, the NAR will immediately respond
with the HACK message to PAR, and then begin the tree join to the RP by
sending the PIM JOIN message. (FMIPv6-FTJ with Remote Subscription): in
which the tree join is completed earlier (i.e., before the NAR receives
the FBACK message from PAR). In this case, the NAR will receive the PIM
JOIN-ACK message from the upstream RP, and then send the HO-COMPLETE
message to the PAR. Accordingly, the PAR will not perform the packet
forwarding to NAR.




















Gohar and Koh
                      Expires February 25, 2010                [Page 7]

Internet-Draft        Fast Tree Join for FMIPv6             August 2009


     MN              PAR                   NAR                       RP

     |                |                     |                         |

     |-RtSolPr[FBU] ->|                     |                         |

     |<-PrRtAdv------ |----HI-------------> |--------PIM JOIN-------->|

     |                |<---HACK------------ |                         |

     |                |                     |                         |

     |                |                     |<-------PIM JOIN ACK-----|

     |                |                     |<===Multicast Tree Data==|

     |                |<---HO COMPLETE----- |                         |

     |      <--FBACK--|---FBACK--->         |                         |

     Disconnect       |                     |                         |

     |                |                     |                         |

     |                |                     |                         |

     |                |                     |                         |

     Connect          |                     |                         |

     |----------UNA------------------------>|                         |

     |<======Multicast Data Delivery========|                         |

                  Figure 2. Proposed FMIPv6-FTJ scheme

To support the proposed FMIPv6-FTJ scheme, we suggest to use the three
modified messages. The existing RtSolPr and FBU messages are merged into
a single RtSolPr message that contains the FBU option and multicast
address. Note that the other two messages, HI and HACK, are changed to
include the MN ID (Home Address of MN) and the multicast address.

4. Conclusions

   This internet draft describes a fast tree join for seamless multicast
   handover in the FMIPv6-based wireless/mobile networks. In the
   existing scheme, there may be a buffer overflow problem during the

Gohar and Koh
                      Expires February 25, 2010                [Page 8]

Internet-Draft        Fast Tree Join for FMIPv6             August 2009


   tree join process. Due to this buffer overflow problem, many packets
   may be lost. TO overcome this drawback, the proposed scheme will
   begin to join the multicast tree, as soon as the handover is detected.

5. References

  5.1. Normative References

   [RFC2119] Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
             Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

   [RFC2234] Crocker, D. and Overell, P.(Editors), "Augmented BNF for
             Syntax Specifications: ABNF", RFC 2234, Internet Mail
             Consortium and Demon Internet Ltd., November 1997.

  5.2. Informative References

   [1] D. H. Kwon, et al., Design and implementation of an efficient
   multicast support scheme for FMIPv6, INFOCOMM2006, pp. 1-                                                                -12, 2006.

   [2] Nicolas Montavont and Thomas noel, ''Handover Management for
   Mobile Nodes in IPv6 Networks,'' IEEE Communication Magazine, August
   2002.

   [3] D. Johnson, et al., ''Mobility Support in IPv6'', IETF RFC 3775,
   2004.

   [4] R. Koodli, ''Mobile IPv6 Fast Handovers'', IETF RFC 5268, 2008.

   [5] Y. Min-hau, et al., ''The Implementation of Multicast in Mobile
   IP'', IEEE Wireless Communications and Networking Conference, pp.
   1796-            -1800, 2003.

   [6] F. Xia, and B. Sarikaya, FMIPv6 extension for multicast Handover,
   draft-xia-mipshop-fmip-multicast-01, work in progress, March 2007.

   [7] SANG-JO YOO and SEAK-JAE SHIN, ''Fast Handover Mechanism for
   Seamless Multicasting Services in Mobile IPv6Wireless Networks,''
   Wireless Personal Communications 42:509-                                               -526, 2007.









Gohar and Koh
                      Expires February 25, 2010                [Page 9]

Internet-Draft        Fast Tree Join for FMIPv6             August 2009




Author's Addresses

   Moneeb Gohar
   Kyungpook National University, KOREA


   Email: moneebgohar@gmail.com


   Seok Joo Koh
   Kyungpook National University, KOREA


   Email: sjkoh@knu.ac.kr
































Gohar and Koh
                      Expires February 25, 2010               [Page 10]

