INTERNET-DRAFT                                                John Mangione
                                                      Competitive Computing 
Title:           GPS^IP
Expiration Date: 12-31-96
filename:        draft-mangione-ipv6-gps-alt-00.txt


Status of This Memo: 


This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working  
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and  
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working  
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months  
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any  
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material  
or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the  
`1id-abstracts.txt'' listing contained in the Internet-Drafts Shadow  
Directories on ftp.is.co.za (Africa), nic.nordu.net (Europe),  
munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim), ds.internic.net (US East Coast), or  
ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast).



ABSTRACT

GPS^IP is a suggested adjunct or alternate addressing scheme to IP,  
version 6.  All of the remaining suggested, proposed, and ratified  
standards would remain as they are.  As its name implies, GPS^IP would  
use Global Positioning System (GPS) information, perhaps in one of the  
currently unassigned regions of the IPv6 address space.  This global  
position information would be placed somewhere in the 128 bit IP  
address, to provide a reasonable level of uniqueness.  The remainder of  
the IP address could remain as currently described, both in IPv4 and  
IPv6, as described in other documents.  Alternatively, a portion of the  
low order end of the IP address field could be populated with the MAC  
address as supplied by the interface.


PERCEIVED BENEFITS

The benefits of using geographical position information in the IP  
address are as follows:

Address Uniqueness.  With the accuracy of GPS locating equipment  
constantly improving, and the inclusion of altitude information in the  
address, each node that occupies a unique physical space will, by  
definition, have a unique "address".  Although geographical  
latitude/longitude position alone would suffice to provide relative  
device uniqueness and routing knowledge, it is important to include  
altitude information in the case of multifloored buildings, or racks of  
equipment with unique identities.  To guarantee node address uniqueness,  
MAC address information could be inserted into the IP address, in the  
same way low order portions of IPX addresses are generated.

Mobility.  A node's address would change as it moved, constantly  
providing a more accurate routable address, since the most local "GP  
server" would also provide the most appropriate "default gateway"  
address for traffic to and from the mobile node.

Transparency.  Addresses would not have to be established for individual  
nodes, since they would gather their addresses from equipment either in  
the node itself, or from nearby GP servers.   Furthermore, if a portion  
of the low order end of the IP address field were to be populated with  
the MAC address as supplied by the machine's interface circuitry, this  
would guarantee uniqueness, even for machines that were right next to  
each other.

Universality.  This scheme could be used to provide meaningful  
information, by way of an IP address, for all types of equipment,  
including computer equipment, mobile/cellular phones, pagers,  
satellites, vending machines, etc.  

Backward Compatibility in routing methods. Current routing methodologies  
(i.e., lookup tables, more authoritative default gateways) could still  
be used.

The Potential For Greater Routing Efficiency.  Currently, there is no  
obvious method to correlate geographical position with a best route  
metric, without artificially devising methods that would create such a  
correlation (such as, "All nodes should be connected to their nearest  
geographical router", or "All nodes that do connect to their nearest  
geographical router can use the geography metric for routing".  As the  
idea ruminates in the minds of the brilliant masses on the Net, there  
may come a time where routers may use lat-long-alt information to move  
datagrams toward a destination by algorithmic methods, rather than  
current lookup methods, for determining best route.  Currently, however,  
this is NOT being stated as a perceived benefit of use geographical  
information in IP addressing.

Device Location Awareness.  Perhaps the greatest benefit would be that  
administrators and users of networks alike would be able to know where  
devices were on their networks.  .

DISCUSSION

GPS^IP is a suggested adjunct or alternate addressing scheme to IP,  
version 6, referred to in RFC-1884.  As its name implies, GPS^IP would  
use Global Positioning System (GPS) information.  The GPS is a system of  
several space-based satellites that provide constantly transmitted  
location information to Earth.  GPS receivers on the Earth (or  
elsewhere), with this transmitted information, and through the use of  
triangulation, can determine their own location, as latitude, longitude  
and altitude.  This information, to a greater or lesser degree, provides  
accurate location information with sub-meter accuracy.  Since other  
documents describe how this is achieved and how the degrees of accuracy  
are managed, this document will merely assume that this information can  
be made available to a node through some relatively inexpensive  
circuitry which would include RF receiver capabilities. The circuitry  
would be able to electronically produce its own location coordinates.  
This information will be referred to (in this document) as a node's  
global position (GP).  


This global position information would be placed in some currently  
unassigned portion of the 128 bit IP address, to provide a reasonable  
level of uniqueness, which is a basic requirement of any transport  
addressing scheme.  The remainder of the IP address could remain as  
currently described, both in IPv4 and IPv6, as the four octet system.   
This would be done to provide administratively managed uniqueness, and,  
to a lesser degree, routing information to the IP address.   
Alternatively, a portion of the low order end of the IP address field  
could be populated with the MAC address as supplied by the interface for  
the guarantee of uniqueness.

Within the network, certain nodes, such as routers, would have an  
awareness of their geographic location.  This would be achieved by  
equipping these nodes with inexpensive GPS devices that would  
auto-locate.  Also, certain of these nodes would provide such location  
information to other nodes that request it.  In effect, these nodes  
would behave as Global Position Servers, "GP servers", or "GP daemons".   
All "GP clients" would request and gather this information from GP  
servers in their electronic horizon, or subnet, and use an algorithm,  
such as quickest response time, to select the optimal default GP server.  
The server that is chosen may or may not become the primary router, or  
default gateway, for that client station. The router that would act as  
the default gateway would become the destination router for all incoming  
information to any nodes that are "registered with" that router.

Initially, only GP servers and routers would need to be configured,  
either statically or dynamically, with accurate GP information. This  
would be achieved statically, by using some hand-held lat-long-alt  
device at the machine and manually entering it into the GP server, or  
dynamically, by using a GPS location acquiring circuitry that would be  
installed directly into the GP server, and would feed this information  
directly and electronically to the system, perhaps through the BIOS,  
like on-board clocks.  

As time goes on, more client workstations would be outfitted with  
position gathering circuitry, so that these nodes could also serve as  
more local GP servers, and/or provide the actual lat-long-alt  
information directly, for the internal use of the system to create its  
own full IP address. 

Not all routers would have to be GP aware at first. The core, or heart  
of the network would be the devices that would have this information at  
the outset.  Routers that were further away from the "backbone" would  
not necessarily have Global positioning awareness. Those that weren't  
would pad that portion of the address with zeros.  When the datagram  
arrived at a GP aware router through standard routing methodologies, it  
would be that router's responsibility to replace the appropriate zeros  
with its own GP location coordinates. In this way, the GP portion of the  
return address of the datagram would first become the nearest GP router  
to the message originator.  Thus, the "heart" of the routing system  
would be GP aware at first, with the more peripheral portions of the  
Internet becoming aware through the attrition of older devices in favor  
of GP aware newer technologies.


CURRENT ARGUMENTS AGAINST THIS IDEA:

"Geographical information cannot be used for routing purposes, since  
wires and geography are two different mathematical systems."

Response:  Currently, there is no identifiable method of mapping  
geographical information into an improved routing scheme than is  
currently employed, but current routing schemes can still be used as  
before, without alteration, so we are no worse off for having the  
information there.  And, with geographical information is in the  
address, at least the potential for the evolution of improved routing  
algorithms based on geography is there.

"What about privacy?  I don't necessarily want anyone to know where I am  
when I send a message."

Response:  A "defeat location information" can be included as a  
configuration check box that users can manipulate for those holding this  
concern.  Also, just as remailers are used, there would be similar ways  
to ensure "locale privacy".

"There would be the cost overhead to include this equipment in  
machines."

Response:  It would not have to go into all machines as it would be a  
discretionary portion of the address. Over time, the machines that were  
most in need of locating quickly would be the ones that would get the  
additional hardware. Furthermore, with Global Position Servers able to  
provide proximity information to other "clients", devices would be able  
to provide general location information without adding equipment on a  
device-by-device basis.

"There would be the addressing overhead to include global position  
information in the actual addresses."

Response:  This overhead already exists, since the current proposal on  
the table already accommodates 128 bits.  There is no less overhead  
transmitting all zeros than in transmitting global positioning  
information instead.


Why go through all the effort?

Currently, with the proliferation of devices on the Internet, as well as  
the intranets, and with the addition of new types of devices, such as  
vending machines and video cameras, as is currently being experimented  
with on the Internet, keeping track of where these machines are will  
become increasingly more challenging. With the addition of software that  
would graphically display portions of the network in relation to a room,  
a floor, a building, or a continent, administrators could find the  
beaconing node, or the network enabled printer that is out of paper.   
This could all be done by looking at a map on a computer monitor and  
seeing the various devices in relation to the space that it occupies.   
In a small network that is not reconfigured frequently, this information  
may be trivial.  However, in networks of more than 100 nodes, a single  
administrator or user would be hard-pressed to track all changes made to  
the network, especially if that administrator or user were relatively  
new to the network.  To know where the vending machine got moved to on  
campus while someone was on vacation would be a very useful piece of  
information, especially if that device were sending distress pages that
it needed servicing. 




What do you think?


Author/Contact Information:

John Mangione
Competitive Computing
2000 Mountain View Drive
Suite 106
Colchester, Vermont 05446
voice: (802) 655-0757
fax:   (802) 655-6681
johnm@competitive.com
