





PPPEXT Working Group                                            B. Aboba
INTERNET-DRAFT                                                 Microsoft
Category: Standards Track
<draft-aboba-pppext-eap-iana-02.txt>
12 October 2002
Updates: RFC 2284


                        EAP IANA Considerations

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC 2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet- Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2002).  All Rights Reserved.

Abstract

This document describes the IANA considerations for Extensible
Authentication Protocol (EAP).

This document updates RFC 2284.













Aboba                        Standards Track                    [Page 1]





INTERNET-DRAFT                  EAP IANA                 12 October 2002


1.  Introduction

This document provides guidance to the Internet Assigned Numbers
Authority (IANA) regarding registration of values related to the
Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP),defined in [RFC2284], in
accordance with BCP 26, [RFC2434].

1.1.  Specification of Requirements

In this document, several words are used to signify the requirements of
the specification.  These words are often capitalized.  The key words
"MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD
NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC2119].

1.2.  Terminology

The following terms are used here with the meanings defined in BCP 26:
"name space", "assigned value", "registration".

The following policies are used here with the meanings defined in BCP
26: "Private Use", "First Come First Served", "Expert Review",
"Specification Required", "IETF Consensus", "Standards Action".

2.  IANA Considerations

There are two name spaces in EAP that require registration: Packet Codes
and Method Types.

EAP is not intended as a general-purpose protocol, and allocations
SHOULD NOT be made for purposes unrelated to authentication.

2.1.  Recommended Registration Policies

For registration requests where a Designated Expert should be consulted,
the responsible IESG area director should appoint the Designated Expert.
For Designated Expert with Specification Required, the request is posted
to the EAP WG mailing list (or, if it has been disbanded, a successor
designated by the Area Director) for comment and review, and MUST
include a pointer to a public specification. Before a period of 30 days
has passed, the Designated Expert will either approve or deny the
registration request and publish a notice of the decision to the EAP WG
mailing list or its sucessor. In making the decision, the Designated
Expert will take into account the security guidelines described in
Section 4.  A denial notice must be justified by an explanation and, in
the cases where it is possible, concrete suggestions on how the request
can be modified so as to become acceptable.




Aboba                        Standards Track                    [Page 2]





INTERNET-DRAFT                  EAP IANA                 12 October 2002


Packet Codes have a range from 1 to 255, of which 1-4 have been
allocated. Because a new Packet Code has considerable impact on
interoperability, a new Packet Code requires Standards Action, and
should be allocated starting at 5.

The original EAP Method Type space has a range from 1 to 255, and is the
scarcest resource in EAP, and thus must be allocated with care.  Method
Types 1-36 have been allocated, with 20 available for re-use. Method
Types 37-191 may be allocated following Designated Expert, with
Specification Required. Release of blocks of Method Types (more than 1
at a time for a given purpose) should require IETF Consensus.  EAP Type
Values 192-254 are reserved and allocation requires Standards Action.

Method Type 255 is allocated for Vendor-Specific extensions as described
in Section 3, and the use of that should be encouraged instead of
allocation from the original global Method Type space, for functions
specific only to one vendor's implementation of EAP, where no
interoperability is deemed useful.

When used with a Vendor-Id of zero, Method Type 255 can also be used to
provide for an expanded Method Type space.  Expanded Method Type values
256-4294967295 may be allocated after Type values 1-191 have been
allocated, using Designated Expert with Specification Required.

3.  Vendor-specific

Description

   Due to EAP's popularity, the original Method Type space, which only
   provides for 255 values, is being allocated at a pace, which if
   continued, would result in exhaustion within a few years.  Since many
   of the existing uses of EAP are vendor-specific, the Vendor-Specific
   Method Type is available to allow vendors to support their own
   extended Types not suitable for general usage. The Vendor-specific
   Type may also be used to expand the global Method Type space beyond
   the original 255 values.

   Peers not equipped to interpret the Vendor-specific Type, or who
   support the Vendor-Specific Type, but find the proposed Vendor-Id to
   be unacceptable, MUST send a Nak, and negotiate a more suitable
   authentication method.










Aboba                        Standards Track                    [Page 3]





INTERNET-DRAFT                  EAP IANA                 12 October 2002


   A summary of the Vendor-specific Type format is shown below.  The
   fields are transmitted from left to right.

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |     Type      |               Vendor-Id                       |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                           String...
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

Type

   255 for Vendor-specific

Vendor-Id

   The Vendor-Id is 3 octets and represents the SMI Network Management
   Private Enterprise Code of the Vendor in network byte order, as
   allocated by IANA. A Vendor-Id of zero is reserved for use by the
   IETF in providing an expanded global EAP Type space.

String

   The String field is one or more octets.  The actual format of the
   information is site or application specific, and a robust
   implementation SHOULD support the field as undistinguished octets.

   The codification of the range of allowed usage of this field is
   outside the scope of this specification.

   It SHOULD be encoded as follows.  The Vendor-Specific field is
   dependent on the vendor's definition of that attribute.  An example
   encoding of the Vendor-Specific attribute using this method follows.

Example Implementation

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |     Type      |               Vendor-Id                       |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                          Vendor-Type                          |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |                        Vendor-Specific...
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+





Aboba                        Standards Track                    [Page 4]





INTERNET-DRAFT                  EAP IANA                 12 October 2002


Vendor-Type

   The Vendor-Type field is four octets and represents the vendor-
   specific Method Type. Where a Vendor-Id of zero is present, the
   Vendor-Type field provides an expanded global EAP Type space,
   beginning with EAP Type values of 256.

Vendor-Specific

   The Vendor-Specific field is dependent on the vendor's definition of
   that attribute. Where a Vendor-Id of zero is present, the Vendor-
   Specific field will be used for transporting the contents of EAP
   Methods of Types 256 or greater.

4.  Security Considerations

EAP was designed for use with dialup PPP [RFC1661] and wired [IEEE802]
networks such as Ethernet [IEEE8023].  On these networks, an attacker
would need to gain physical access to the telephone or switch
infrastructure in order to mount an attack. While such attacks have been
documented, such as in [DECEPTION], they are assumed to be rare.

However, subsequently EAP has been proposed for use on wireless
networks, and over the Internet, where physical security cannot be
assumed. On such networks, the security vulnerabilities are greater, as
are the requirements for EAP security.

This section documents the threats that exist on physically insecure
networks carrying EAP, as well as laying out the security analysis
required of an EAP method requesting a Type allocation.

4.1.  Threat model

On physically insecure networks, it is possible for an attacker to gain
access to the physical medium. This enables a range of attacks,
including the following:

[1]  An adversary may try to discover user identities by snooping data
     packets.

[2]  An adversary may try to modify or spoof EAP packets.

[3]  An adversary may launch denial of service attacks by terminating
     EAP conversations.

[4]  An adversary might attempt to recover the passphrase by mounting an
     offline dictionary attack.




Aboba                        Standards Track                    [Page 5]





INTERNET-DRAFT                  EAP IANA                 12 October 2002


[5]  An adversary may attempt to convince the Peer to connect to an
     untrusted network.

[6]  An adversary may attempt to disrupt the EAP negotiation in order to
     weaken the authentication, gain access to user passwords or remove
     confidentiality protection.

[7]  An adversary may attempt to mount a denial of service attack by
     modify

[8]  An attacker may attempt to take advantage of weak key derivation
     techniques used within EAP methods.

[9]  An attacker may attempt to take advantage of weak ciphersuites
     subsequently used after the EAP conversation is complete.

Where EAP is used over wireless networks, an attacker needs to be within
the coverage area of the wireless medium in order to carry out these
attacks. However, where EAP is used over the Internet, no such
restrictions apply.

4.2.  Security requirements

In order to address the threats that exist where EAP is used on a
physically insecure medium, the following requirements are imposed:

[1]  Mutual authentication. Mutual authentication of the communication
     endpoints MUST be provided in order to protect against rogue
     Authenticators.

[2]  Protected conversation. On a physically insecure network, EAP
     messages SHOULD be integrity and replay protected, authenticated
     and confidential so as to protect against downgrade attacks,
     snooping of identities, and spoofing of packets.  This includes
     protection of packets of types Identity, Nak and Notification, as
     well as packets sent within the EAP method itself, and success and
     failure indications.  Where EAP is used for ciphersuite or
     capabilities negotiation, these messages SHOULD be integrity and
     replay protected, authenticated and confidential.

[3]  Key derivation. EAP methods used on physically insecure networks
     MAY derive keys in order to enable per-packet authentication,
     integrity and replay protection as well as confidentiality.  Where
     EAP methods derive keys, the distributed keys SHOULD be master
     session keys, used only for further key derivation, independent of
     the ciphersuite. This eliminates the need for an EAP method to
     understand how to derive keys for every ciphersuite. Rather than
     inventing new key derivation techniques, well analyzed algorithms



Aboba                        Standards Track                    [Page 6]





INTERNET-DRAFT                  EAP IANA                 12 October 2002


     SHOULD be used.

[4]  Dictionary attack resistance. Where EAP is used on physically
     insecure networks resistance against dictionary attack SHOULD be
     provided.  Where password authentication is used, users are
     notoriously prone to selection of poor passwords. Without
     dictionary attack protection, it is easy for an attacker snooping
     authentication traffic to gather a large number of authentication
     exchanges, and successfully obtain a substantial fraction of the
     passwords used in those exchanges via a dictionary attack.  Given
     the steadily declining prices of computing power, successful
     dictionary attacks can now be mounted at minimal expense.

[5]  Support for fast reconnect.  On physically insecure media such as
     wireless, it is often desirable to improve scalability and minimize
     connectivity interruptions due to authentication.  Where this is
     desired, EAP methods MAY support "fast reconnect". After an initial
     authentication conversation, this enables subsequent authentication
     conversations to take place in shortened form.

[6]  Acknowledged success and failure indications.  Where EAP is used
     over an unreliable medium, it is possible for packets to be lost.
     This can result in the Peer and Authenticator having a different
     interpretation of the state of the authentication conversation. As
     a result, where EAP is used over an unreliable medium, EAP methods
     SHOULD support acknowledged success and failure indications.

Since proposed EAP methods may be used on physically insecure methods,
it is necessary to be able to evaluate methods against the above
requirements in order to determine their suitability.  In order to be
suitable for allocation of a Type code, EAP method specifications MUST
include the following:

[a]  Statement of intended use. This includes a statement of whether the
     method is intended for use over a physically secure or insecure
     network, as well as a statement of the applicable media.

[b]  Indication of security claims. This includes a statement of the
     claimed security properties of the method. In particular, the
     specification MUST include a vulnerability analysis and an
     indication of whether the method claims to satisfy the requirements
     for use on physically insecure media.

[c]  Description of key hierarchy. EAP methods deriving keys MUST
     describe how keys for authentication/integrity, encryption and IVs
     are to be derived from the provided keying material, or a reference
     to other documents providing such a description.




Aboba                        Standards Track                    [Page 7]





INTERNET-DRAFT                  EAP IANA                 12 October 2002


[d]  Indication of vulnerabilities. If the method is intended for use on
     a physically insecure network, yet does not satisfy the above
     requirements, the specification MUST indicate which requirements
     are not satisfied, and discuss the security implications.

5.  Normative references

[RFC2119]      Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
               Requirement Levels", RFC 2119, March 1997.

[RFC2434]      Alvestrand, H. and Narten, T., "Guidelines for Writing an
               IANA Considerations Section in RFCs", BCP 26, RFC 2434,
               October 1998.

[RFC2284]      Blunk, L., Vollbrecht, J., "PPP Extensible Authentication
               Protocol (EAP)", RFC 2284, March 1998.

Acknowledgments

Thanks to Glen Zorn of Cisco, and Ashwin Palekar of Microsoft for
discussions relating to this document.

Authors' Addresses

Bernard Aboba
Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA 98052

EMail: bernarda@microsoft.com
Phone: +1 425 706 6605
Fax:   +1 425 936 7329



















Aboba                        Standards Track                    [Page 8]





INTERNET-DRAFT                  EAP IANA                 12 October 2002


Intellectual Property Statement

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed to pertain
to the implementation or use of the technology described in this
document or the extent to which any license under such rights might or
might not be available; neither does it represent that it has made any
effort to identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's
procedures with respect to rights in standards-track and standards-
related documentation can be found in BCP-11.  Copies of claims of
rights made available for publication and any assurances of licenses to
be made available, or the result of an attempt made to obtain a general
license or permission for the use of such proprietary rights by
implementers or users of this specification can be obtained from the
IETF Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights
which may cover technology that may be required to practice this
standard.  Please address the information to the IETF Executive
Director.

Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2002).  All Rights Reserved.
This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.  The limited permissions granted above are
perpetual and will not be revoked by the Internet Society or its
successors or assigns.  This document and the information contained
herein is provided on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE
INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."







Aboba                        Standards Track                    [Page 9]





INTERNET-DRAFT                  EAP IANA                 12 October 2002


Expiration Date

This memo is filed as <draft-aboba-pppext-eap-iana-02.txt>,  and
expires April 19, 2003.















































Aboba                        Standards Track                   [Page 10]


