
    
                                                            James Kempf 
Internet Draft                                              Rob Austein 
Document: draft-iab-e2e-futures-00.txt                              IAB 
Expires: July 2003                                         January 2003 
    
    
           The Rise of the Middle and the Future of End to End: 
         Reflections on the Evolution of the Internet Architecture 
                                      
    
    
Status of this Memo 
    
   This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with 
   all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026. 
    
    
   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering 
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that      
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts. 
    
   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six 
   months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents 
   at any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as 
   reference material or to cite them other than as "work in progress." 
    
   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at 
        http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt 
   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at 
        http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html. 
    
    
Abstract 
    
The end to end principle is the core architectural principle of the 
Internet. In this document, we briefly examine the development of the 
end to end principle as it has been applied to the Internet 
architecture over the years. We discuss current trends in the evolution 
of the Internet architecture in relation to the end to end principle, 
and try to draw some conclusion about the evolution of the end to end 
principle, and thus for the Internet architecture which it supports, in 
light of these current trends.  
 
Table of Contents 
 
   1.0  Introduction.................................................2 
   2.0  A Brief History of End to End................................2 
   3.0  Trends Opposing to End to End................................5 
   4.0  Whither End to End?..........................................7 
   5.0  Internet Standards as an Arena for Conflict..................9 
   6.0  Conclusions..................................................9 
   7.0  Acknowledgements............................................10 

    
   Kempf and Austein       Expires July 2003                [Page 1] 
   Internet Draft        Future of End to End            November, 2002 
    
   8.0  References..................................................10 
   9.0  Security Considerations.....................................11 
   10.0  IANA Considerations........................................11 
   11.0  Author Information.........................................11 
   12.0  Full Copyright Statement...................................11 
    
 1.0   Introduction 
    
One of the key architectural principles of the Internet is the end to 
end  principle  [1][2].  The  end  to  end  principle  was  originally 
articulated as a question of where best not to put functions in a 
communication system. Yet, in the ensuing years, it has evolved to 
address concerns of maintaining openness, increasing reliability and 
robustness, and preserving the properties of user choice and ease of 
new service development [3]; concerns that were not part of the 
original articulation of the end to end principle. 
      
In this document, we examine how the interpretation of the end to end 
principle has evolved over the years, and where it stands currently. We 
examine trends in the development of the Internet that have lead to 
pressure to define services in the network, a topic that has already 
received some amount of attention from the IAB [4]. We describe some 
considerations about how the end to end principle might evolve in light 
of these trends. 
 
 2.0   A Brief History of End to End 
    
2.1 In the Beginnning... 
 
The end to end principle was originally fairly broadly articulated as a 
question of where best not to put functions in a communication system: 
 
   The function in question can completely and correctly be implemented 
   only with the knowledge and help of the application standing at the 
   end points of the communication system. Therefore, providing that 
   questioned function as a feature of the communication system itself 
   is not possible. (Sometimes an incomplete version of the function 
   provided by the communication system may be useful as a performance 
   enhancement.) [1]. 
 
However, the specific examples given in [1] and other references at the 
time [2]  primarily involve transmission of data packets: data 
integrity, delivery guarantees, duplicate message suppression, per 
packet encryption, and transaction management. From the viewpoint of 
today's Internet architecture, we would view most of these as transport 
layer functions (data integrity, delivery guarantees, duplicate message 
suppression, and perhaps transaction management), others as network 
layer functions with support at other layers where necessary (for 
example, packet encryption). The authors of [1] cite a few other 
application areas, outside of the specific area of communication system 
design, where the end to end principle seems to apply, including RISC 
architectures. 
 
    
   Kempf and Austein           Expires July 2003             [Page 2] 
   Internet Draft        Future of End to End            November, 2002 
    
Interestingly, the expression of the end to end principle cited above 
is phrased as a negative: what should *not* be provided in a 
communication system rather than what should be provided. Much of the 
wider applicability later attributed to the end to end principle, 
outside of the original application to the transport of packets, 
derives from this phrasing.  
 
The end to end principle itself only provides the designer with 
guidance about what not to do. If a function is not supplied in the 
communication system, then it must be supplied in the application. In 
order to avoid duplicating functions in the application, the primitives 
in the communication system must provide the right set of non-
overlapping functions (orthogonal primitives) upon which the 
application can be based. Though the principle of orthogonal primitives 
is not explicitly cited in [1], its influence is apparent throughout 
the examples. 
 
2.2 ...In the Middle... 
    
As the Internet developed, the end to end principle gradually widened 
to concerns about where best to put services in the Internet: in the 
network or at end nodes. The best example is the description in RFC 
1958: 
 
   This principle has important consequences if we require applications 
   to survive partial network failures. An end-to-end protocol design 
   should not rely on the maintenance of state (i.e. information about 
   the state of the end-to-end communication) inside the network. Such 
   state should be maintained only in the endpoints, in such a way that 
   the state can only be destroyed when the endpoint itself breaks 
   (known as fate-sharing). An immediate consequence of this is that 
   datagrams are better than classical virtual circuits.  The network's 
   job is to transmit datagrams as efficiently and flexibly as 
   possible. Everything else should be done at the fringes.[5]  
 
The original broad articulation of the end to end principle as where 
not to define functions in a communication system took a while to 
percolate through the engineering community, and had evolved by this 
point to an explicit architectural statement (but still quite broad) 
about what belongs in the network and what doesn't. Functions that 
require maintaining application state belong in the applications. 
"Fate-sharing" describes this quite clearly: the fate of a conversation 
between two applications is only shared between the two applications; 
the fate does not depend on anything in the network, except for the 
network's ability to get packets from one application to the other.  
 
The end to end principle in this formulation is specifically about what 
kind of state is maintained where: 
 
   To perform its services, the network maintains some state 
   information: routes, QoS guarantees that it makes, session 
   information where that is used in header compression, compression 
   histories for data compression, and the like. This state must be 
   self-healing; adaptive procedures or protocols must exist to derive 
    
   Kempf and Austein           Expires July 2003             [Page 3] 
   Internet Draft        Future of End to End            November, 2002 
    
   and maintain that state, and change it when the topology or activity 
   of the network changes. The volume of this state must be minimized, 
   and the loss of the state must not result in more than a temporary 
   denial of service given that connectivity exists.  Manually 
   configured state must be kept to an absolute minimum.[5] 
    
In this formulation of the end to end principle, state involved in 
getting packets from one end of the network to the other is maintained 
in the network. The state is "soft state," in sense that it can be 
quickly dropped and reconstructed (or even required to be periodically 
renewed) as the network topology changes due to routers and switches 
going on and off line.  
 
In summary, the general awareness both of the principle itself and of 
its implications for how unavoidable state should be handled grew over 
time to become a (if not the) foundation principle of the Internet 
architecture. 
 
2.3 ...And Now. 
    
An interesting example of how end to end continues to influence the 
technical debate in the Internet community is route optimization in 
Mobile IPv6 [6]. This is a specific example in which the end to end 
principle has been applied to something that is the quintessential 
network function, namely routing. 
 
Route optimization in Mobile IPv6 requires a moving mobile node to send 
routing updates to its correspondents when the mobile node moves from 
one subnet to another. These routing updates allow the correspondent to 
match the mobile node's home network address to its current care-of 
address. Packets originally addressed to the home address by the 
transport layer can be routed by the correspondent's Mobile IP stack 
directly to the mobile node's care-of address, avoiding the overhead 
and latency of tunneling through the home agent. A consequence of this 
design is that any IPv6 node in the Internet (not just a mobile node) 
that wants to participate in route optimization must maintain a host 
route table for those mobile nodes with which it is in conversation. 
This design extends host-maintained routing from end to end 
communication in the subnet to end to end communication across the 
Internet. 
 
The vision emerging out of the IETF working groups developing standards 
for mobile networking is of a largely autonomous mobile node with 
multiple wireless link options among which the mobile node picks and 
chooses, a kind of innovative application of end to end that derives 
from the same basic considerations of reliability and robustness 
(wireless link integrity, changes in connectivity and service 
availability with movement, etc.) which motivated the original 
development of end to end. Route optimization is one example. The 
mobile node's autonomy is supported by having the mobile node itself 
take care of link selection and routing, expanding the number of multi-
homed hosts by several orders of magnitude. Whether this vision will 
provide adequate performance without more network support is currently 
an open question (and see Section 5.0); but as the last line in the 
    
   Kempf and Austein           Expires July 2003             [Page 4] 
   Internet Draft        Future of End to End            November, 2002 
    
original formulation of the end to end principle states, sometimes 
performance enhancements within the network may be necessary. This new 
application of the end to end principle suggests that the principle is 
still a relevant consideration in the design of new technical 
applications. 
 
 3.0   Trends Opposing to End to End 
    
While the situation with mobile computing looks encouraging, the 
specific application of end to end described in RFC 1958 has 
increasingly come into question from people who want to locate 
services, together with their state, in the network. In particular the 
recently published IAB opinion on Open Pluggable Edge Services (OPES) 
[4] was intended to assess the architectural desirability of defining 
services in the network and to raise questions about how such services 
might result in compromises of the end to end principle. The topic of 
service definition the network is also taken up in [7] and [8]. 
 
Perhaps the best review of the forces militating against end to end is 
[3]. The authors make the point that the Internet originally developed 
among a community of like-minded technical professionals who trusted 
each other, and was administered by academic and government 
institutions who enforced a policy of no commercial use. The major 
stakeholders in the Internet are quite different today. As a 
consequence, new requirements have evolved over the last decade. 
Examples of these requirements are discussed in the following 
subsections. Other discussions about pressures on the end to end 
principle in today's Internet can be found in [9] and [10]. 
 
3.1 Lack of Trust 
 
Perhaps the single most important change from the Internet of 15 years 
ago is the lack of trust between end nodes. Because the end users in 
the Internet of 15 years ago were few, and were largely dedicated to 
using the Internet as a tool for computer science research and for 
communicating research results, trust between end users (and thus 
between the end nodes that they use) was simply not an issue in 
general. Today, the motivations of some individuals using the Internet 
are not always entirely ethical, and, even if they are, the assumption 
that end nodes will always co-operate to achieve some mutually 
beneficial action, as implied by the end to end principle, is not 
always accurate. One of the most common examples of network elements 
interposing between end hosts are those dedicated to security: 
firewalls, VPN tunnel endpoints, certificate servers, etc. These 
intermediaries are designed to either protect the network from 
unimpeded attack or to allow two end nodes that may have no inherent 
reason to trust each other to achieve some level of trust. Trusted 
intermediaries are a major example of services defined in the network. 
 
3.2 New Service Models 
 
New service models inspired by new applications require achieving the 
proper performance level as a fundamental part of the delivered 
service. These service models are a significant change from the 
    
   Kempf and Austein           Expires July 2003             [Page 5] 
   Internet Draft        Future of End to End            November, 2002 
    
original best effort service model. Email, file transfer, and even Web 
access aren't perceived as failing if performance degrades, though the 
user may become frustrated at the time required to complete the 
transaction. However, for streaming audio and video, to say nothing of 
real time bidirectional voice and video, achieving the proper 
performance level is part of delivering the service, and a customer 
contracting for the service has a right to expect the level of 
performance for which they have contracted. Designs for achieving 
additional performance in the Internet often require network elements 
that maintain some kind of state involving the real time flow, for 
example, caching streaming media content locally so it can be delivered 
more quickly.  
 
3.3 Rise of the Third Party 
 
The Internet of 10 years ago was run by academic and government 
institutions. These institutions did not expect to make a profit from 
their investment in networking technology. In contrast, the network 
operator with which most Internet users deal today is the ISP. ISPs run 
their networks as a business, and expect to make a profit (or at least 
not lose much) on their investment in the network. While this radical 
change in business model is not an excuse for modifying an 
architectural principle that has exhibited its value over time, it does 
put a certain amount of pressure on the end to end principle. 
 
In particular, because an ISP delivers a commodity service, the profit 
margins on basic bandwidth provision for a best effort service bit 
pipe, together with the email and Web access services that are 
typically bundled with bit pipe service, are fairly low. As a result, 
ISPs would like to differentiate themselves by providing some services 
within their networks. This desire is being met by new hardware that 
allows routers to perform line speed examination of IP flows, primarily 
for purposes of billing, but the capability is also available for 
defining other services. An example is enhanced content delivery 
performance. Many ISPs today use caching services to increase the 
performance of Web page delivery, and caching services for streaming 
media are also under discussion. These services are typically deployed 
so that they are only accessible within the ISPs network, and as a 
result, they do not contribute to open, end to end service. 
 
ISPs are not the only third party intermediary that has appeared within 
the last 10 years. Unlike the previous involvement of corporations and 
governments in running the Internet, corporate network administrators, 
and governmental officials have become increasingly demanding of 
opportunities to interpose between two parties in an end to end 
conversation. A benign motivation for this involvement is to mitigate 
the lack of trust, so the third party acts as a trust anchor or 
enforcer of good behavior between the two ends. A less benign 
motivation is for the third party to insert policy for their own 
reasons, perhaps taxation or even censorship. The requirements of third 
parties often have little or nothing to do with technical concerns, but 
rather derive from particular social and legal considerations. 
 

    
   Kempf and Austein           Expires July 2003             [Page 6] 
   Internet Draft        Future of End to End            November, 2002 
    
3.4 The Consumer as the Primary User 
 
The original users of the Internet were technologists who understood 
how it worked and had no reservations about tinkering with the software 
or hardware on their end hosts. The users of today are primarily 
consumers who buy packaged hardware and software from vendors and 
contract with ISPs for service. They expect their Internet service to 
function smoothly like any other product they buy, without much 
involvement on their part in keeping the product functional. This 
development matches closely the development of other technologies, for 
example the automobile, that have become mainstream. 
 
This pressure to simplify the user experience has resulted in a 
corresponding pressure to reduce the amount of installation, 
configuration, maintenance, and upgrade on end nodes. Requiring user 
involvement in the deployment of new software or hardware on the end 
nodes, in order to deploy new services, runs directly counter to this 
trend. One response has been the tendency to move deployment of new 
services to servers running an existing protocol, such as HTTP, or 
downloadable code, such as Java or browser plug-ins, which don't 
require any user involvement to install. Another response has been 
network intermediaries to provide the service. Typically, these 
intermediaries don't interpose on a flow between a client and a server, 
but they may act more like DNS, in that the intermediary is required in 
order to get access to the service. A further development of this trend 
would be to move much of the context and configuration for a user into 
a node in the network, where it can be upgraded without any user 
involvement. This development would remove the end host as the 
definitive location for the application and spread it out between the 
network and the end host. 
 
 4.0   Whither End to End?  
 
Given the pressures on end to end discussed in the previous section, a 
question arises about the future of end to end. Does end to end have a 
future in the Internet architecture or not? If it does have a future, 
how should it be applied? Clearly, an unproductive approach to 
answering this question is to insist upon end to end as a 
fundamentalist principle that allows no compromise. The pressures 
described above are real and powerful, and if the current Internet 
technical community chooses to ignore these pressures, the likely 
result is that a market opportunity will be created for a new technical 
community that does not ignore these pressures but which may not 
understand the implications of their design choices. A more productive 
approach is to return to first principles and re-examine what end to 
end is trying to accomplish, and then update our definition and 
exposition of the end to end principle given the complexities of the 
Internet today.  
 
In the next two subsections, we consider the two basic motivations for 
end to end: protecting innovation and providing reliability and 
robustness. 
 

    
   Kempf and Austein           Expires July 2003             [Page 7] 
   Internet Draft        Future of End to End            November, 2002 
    
4.1 Protecting Innovation 
 
One motivation underlying continued application of the end to end 
principle is to protect innovation. Requiring modification in the 
network in order to deploy new services is still typically more 
difficult than modifying end nodes. The counterargument in Section 3.4 
- that many end nodes are now essentially closed boxes that are not 
updatable and that most users don't want to update them anyway - does 
not apply to all nodes and all users. Many end nodes are still user 
configurable and a sizable percentage of users are "early adopters," 
who are willing to put up with a certain amount of technological grief 
in order to try out a new idea. Requiring someone with a new idea for a 
service to convince a bunch of ISPs to modify their networks is much 
more difficult than simply putting up a Web page with some downloadable 
software implementing the service. End to end design thus remains a 
viable way of fostering the service innovation that has been so 
important in making the Internet a useful tool in people's lives.  
 
At the same time, the pressure for lots of different parties to get 
involved in existing, successful applications will be irresistible [7]. 
Application service providers, ISPs, corporate networks, and others 
will want to provide special performance, reliability, and add-on 
services. Such pressure is fueling the desire for OPES as an adjunct to 
existing Web services. The result of all this additional complexity in 
the network is likely to move the services away from their original 
simplicity, and foster interoperability and other problems. About the 
best one can hope for is to provide protocol and application designers 
with guidance in maintaining end user choice, so that the basic end to 
end principle is maintained. To a large extent, the IAB OPES [4] work 
is directed at providing such guidance. 
 
4.2 Reliability and Robustness 
 
The second motivation for continued application of the end to end 
principle is to increase the reliability and robustness of the exchange 
between the two parties in the conversation. During the early 
development of the Internet, the basic reliability of the hardware and 
software was fairly low, so involving additional network elements 
between the two ends could radically decrease the reliability of the 
overall connection. Technical reliability has improved considerably, 
but reliability due to involvement of network elements is still a 
concern [4]. 
 
Of more concern today, however, is the decrease in reliability and 
robustness that results from deliberate, active attacks on the network 
infrastructure and end nodes. While the original developers of the 
Internet were concerned by large scale system failures, attacks of the 
subtlety and variety that the Internet experiences today were not a 
problem during the original development of the Internet. By and large, 
the end to end principle was not addressed to the decrease in 
reliability resulting from subtlety engineered attacks. These attacks 
are part of the larger issue of the trust breakdown discussed in 
Section 3.1. Thus, the issue of the trust breakdown can be considered 

    
   Kempf and Austein           Expires July 2003             [Page 8] 
   Internet Draft        Future of End to End            November, 2002 
    
another forcing function on the Internet architecture, similar to the 
issue of reliability and robustness due to technical. 
 
The immediate reaction to this trust breakdown has been to try to back 
fit security into existing protocols. While this effort is necessary, 
it is not enough. The issue of trust must become as firm an 
architectural principle in protocol design for the future as the end to 
end principle is today. Trust isn't simply a matter of adding some 
cryptographic protection to a protocol after it is designed. Rather, 
prior to designing the protocol, the trust relationships between the 
network elements involved in the protocol must be defined, and 
boundaries must be drawn between those network elements that share a 
trust relationship. The trust boundaries should be used to determine 
what type of signaling occurs between the network elements involved in 
the protocol and which network elements signal each other. When 
signaling occurs across a trust boundary, cryptographic or other 
security protection of some sort may be necessary. Additional measures 
may be necessary to secure the protocol when communicating network 
elements do not share a trust relationship. For example, a protocol may 
need to minimize state in the recipient prior to establishing the 
validity of the credentials from the sender in order to avoid a memory 
depletion DoS attack. The end to end principle is insufficient to cover 
this case, because the recipient is an end node.   
 
 5.0   Internet Standards as an Arena for Conflict 
 
Internet standards have increasingly become an arena for conflict [7]. 
ISPs have particular business concerns, and their concerns drive some 
of the pressure for defining services in the network, as described in 
Section 3.3. Businesses and government have other concerns, and vendors 
of networking hardware and software still others. For example, as 
discussed in Section 2.3, the trend in the IETF mobile networking 
standards is to apply the end to end principle quite radically, to 
enable an autonomous mobile host. This trend strengthens the important 
properties of choice and user empowerment. Yet, the business pressure 
for mobile network operators is to hold on to the customer as long as 
possible, in order to derive maximum revenue from the customer. The 
result is a conflict between the desire of the ISP to obtain revenue to 
run their business and the desires of the users for choice.  
 
These conflicts will inevitably be reflected in the Internet 
architecture going forward. Some of these conflicts are impossible to 
resolve on a technical level, nor would it even be desirable, because 
they involve social and legal choices that the IETF is not empowered to 
make (for a counter argument in the area of privacy, see [11]). But for 
those conflicts that do involve technical choices, the important 
properties of user choice and empowerment, reliability and integrity of 
end to end service, supporting trust and "good network citizen 
behavior"," and fostering innovation in services should be the basis 
upon which resolution is made. The conflict will then play out on the 
field of the resulting architecture. 
    
 6.0   Conclusions 
 
    
   Kempf and Austein           Expires July 2003             [Page 9] 
   Internet Draft        Future of End to End            November, 2002 
    
 
The end to end principle continues to guide technical development of 
Internet standards, and remains as important today for the Internet 
architecture as in the past. While the end to end principle originated 
as a focused argument about where best not to put functions in a 
communication system, particular properties developed by the Internet 
as a result of the end to end principle have come to be recognized as 
being as important, if not more so, than the principle itself. 
Protection of innovation, end user choice and empowerment, reliability, 
integrity of service, support for trust, and "good network citizen 
behavior" are all properties that have developed as a consequence of 
the end to end principle. Recognizing these properties in a particular 
proposal for modifications to the Internet has become more important 
than before as the pressures to incorporate services into the network 
have increased. Any proposal to incorporate services in the network 
should be weighed against these properties before proceeding.   
 
 7.0   Acknowledgements 
    
Many of the ideas presented here originally appeared in the works of 
Dave Clark, John Wroclawski, Bob Braden, Karen Sollins, Marjory 
Blumenthal, and Dave Reed on forces currently influencing the evolution 
of the Internet. The authors would particularly like to single out the 
work of Dave Clark, who was the original articulator of the end to end 
principle and who continues to inspire and guide the evolution of the 
Internet architecture, and John Wroclawski, with whom conversations 
during the development of this paper helped to clarify issues involving 
tussle and the Internet. 
    
 8.0   References 
    
    [1] Saltzer, J.H., Reed, D.P., and Clark, D.D., "End to End 
        Arguments in System Design," Communications Policy in 
        Transition: The Internet and Beyond, B. Compaine and S. 
        Greenstein, eds. MIT Press, September 2001. 
    [2] Clark, D., "The Design Philosophy of the DARPA Internet 
        Protocols," Proc SIGCOMM 88, ACM CCR Vol 18, Number 4, August 
        1988, pp. 106-114. 
    [3] Blumenthal, M., Clark, D.D., "Rethinking the design of the 
        Internet: The end to end arguments vs. the brave new world", 
        ACM Transactions on Internet Technology, Vol. 1, No. 1, August 
        2001, pp 70-109. 
    [4] Floyd, S., and Daigle, L., "IAB Architectural and Policy 
        Considerations for Open Pluggable Edge Services", RFC 3238, 
        January 2002. 
    [5] Carpenter, B., "Architectural Principles of the Internet," RFC 
        1958, June, 1996. 
    [6] Johnson, D., Perkins, C., and Arkko, J., "Mobility Support in 
        IPv6," draft-ietf-mobileip-ipv6-17.txt, a work in progress. 
    [7] Clark, D.D., Wroclawski, J., Sollins, K., and Braden, B., 
        "Tussle in Cyberspace: Defining Tommorow's Internet", 
        Proceedings of Sigcomm 2002. 
    [8] Carpenter, B., and Brim, S., "Middleboxes: Taxonomy and 
        Issues," RFC 3234, February, 2002. 
    
   Kempf and Austein           Expires July 2003             [Page 10] 
   Internet Draft        Future of End to End            November, 2002 
    
    [9] Reed, D., "The End of the End-to-End Argument?", 
        http://www.reed.com/dprframeweb/dprframe.asp?section=paper&fn=e
        ndofendtoend.html, April, 2000. 
    [10] Moors, T., "A Critical Review of End-to-end Arguments in System 
        Design," Proc. 2000 IEEE International Conference on 
        Communications, pp. 1214-1219, April, 2002. 
    [11] Goldberg, I., Wagner, D., and Brewer, E., "Privacy-enhancing 
        technologies for the Internet," Proceedings of IEEE COMPCON 97, 
        pp. 103-109, 1997. 
    
    
 9.0   Security Considerations 
    
This document does not propose any new protocols, and therefore does 
not involve any security considerations in that sense.  However, 
throughout this document there are discussions of the privacy and 
integrity issues and the architectural requirements created by those 
issues. 
    
 10.0  IANA Considerations 
    
There are no IANA considerations regarding this document. 
    
 11.0  Author Information 
    
    
Internet Architecture Board 
EMail:  iab@iab.org 
    
IAB Membership at time this document was completed: 
    
      Harald Alvestrand 
      Ran Atkinson 
      Rob Austein 
      Fred Baker 
      Leslie Daigle 
      Steve Deering 
      Sally Floyd 
      Ted Hardie 
      Geoff Huston 
      Charlie Kaufman 
      James Kempf 
      Eric Rescorla 
      Mike St. Johns 
 
This draft was created in January 2003. 
    
 12.0  Full Copyright Statement 
    
   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.  
   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to 
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it 
   or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published 
   and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any 
    
   Kempf and Austein           Expires July 2003             [Page 11] 
   Internet Draft        Future of End to End            November, 2002 
    
   kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph 
   are included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this 
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing 
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other 
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of 
   developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for 
   copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be 
   followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than 
   English.  The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and 
   will not be revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or 
   assigns.  This document and the information contained herein is 
   provided on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE 
   INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR 
   IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF 
   THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED 
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 






































    
   Kempf and Austein           Expires July 2003             [Page 12] 
