



                     Definitions of Managed Objects
                        for Extended Border Node

                           September 1, 1997


                         Bob Clouston (editor)
                             Cisco Systems
                           clouston@cisco.com



                           Bob Moore (editor)
                            IBM Corporation
                           remoore@us.ibm.com



                         Katie D. Lee (editor)
                            IBM Corporation
                           kdlee@vnet.ibm.com



                   <draft-ietf-snanau-ebnmib-00.txt>




1.  Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months.
Internet-Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
documents at any time.  It is not appropriate to use Internet-Drafts as
reference material or to cite them other than as a working draft or work
in progress.

To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
1id-abstracts.txt listing contained in the Internet-Drafts Shadow
Directories on ds.internic.net, nic.nordu.net, ftp.isi.edu, or
munnari.oz.au.



Expires March 1, 1998                                           *Page 1*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


2.  Introduction

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for monitoring and controlling network
devices with APPN (Advanced Peer-to-Peer Network) EBN (Extended Border
Node) capabilities.  This memo identifies managed objects for the EBN
architecture.


This memo does not specify a standard for the Internet community.

3.  The SNMP Network Management Framework

The SNMP Network Management Framework consists of several components.
For the purpose of this specification, the applicable components of the
Framework are the SMI and related documents *1, 2, 3*, which define the
mechanisms used for describing and naming objects for the purpose of
management.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.


4.  Overview

This document identifies the proposed set of objects for monitoring the
configuration and active characteristics of devices with EBN
capabilities.  The Extended Border Node function is an APPN enhancement
for an APPN network node (NN).  It supports topology isolation, subnet
interconnection, and session establishment between subnets.

In a single APPN network, all network topology information is propagated
to all network nodes.  Directory searches can also be forwarded to all
network nodes.  As the network grows, this network traffic could become
prohibitive.  Also, in networks where different enterprises are
connected via APPN, it may be desirable to shield an enterprise from the
network traffic of another enterprise.  EBN allows customers to
partition a network into subnets to reduce or shield such network
traffic.

An EBN provides this function by blocking topology information exchange
between subnets, and controlling where directory searches are forwarded.
A subnetwork is a cluster of APPN NNs which share the same network
topology.  Subnetwork boundaries, or partitions, occur where an EBN and
an NN adjacent to it have different network identifiers (NETIDs).  They



Expires March 1, 1998                                           *Page 2*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


may also occur where an EBN and adjacent NN have the same NETID but are
configured to have a subnetwork boundary.

The connection between two APPN nodes is an APPN transmission group
(TG).  A  TG at a subnet boundary is called an Intersubnetwork
Transmission Group (ISTG).

The subnet that the EBN resides in is called its native subnetwork.  The
subnet across the subnet boundary is called the non-native subnetwork,
with respect to the EBN.

A cost of the EBN function is that customers may have difficulty
determining the end-to-end route of sessions that cross subnet
boundaries, and understanding how the EBN will control directory
searches between subnets.  This MIB addresses these issues.

Another challenge facing customers is to identify subnet boundaries
formed by EBNs.  The SNANAU APPN MIB *4* identifies subnet boundaries in
the appnNnTopology group.  The SNANAU APPN MIB provides management of
APPN objects, and contains some tables which are extended by this MIB.

In this document, we describe EBN managed objects.

The EBN terms and overall architecture are available from the
networking.raleigh.ibm.com ftp site *5*.

Highlights of the management functions supported by the EBN MIB module
include the following:


o    Identifying the subnet affiliation of LUs (logical units)

o    Identifying session routes in non-native subnets, with correlation
     to the route in the native subnet provided in the SNANAU APPN MIB.

o    Identifying the COS (Class of Service) mappings between subnets.

o    Identifying the subnet routing lists


This MIB module does not support:


o    Configuration of EBN nodes.

o    Historical information about session initiation failures.



Expires March 1, 1998                                           *Page 3*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


o    Peripheral Border Node (PBN) support.  PBN is an APPN function that
     only supports communication to adjacent subnetworks, and is not
     expected to be widely implemented.

o    Traps.  The APPN MIB contains a trap for Alert conditions that may
     affect EBN resources.  Although no APPN/EBN Alerts are defined
     today in *6*, they could exist in the future.  The value for the
     affectedObject object contained in the alertTrap is determined by
     the implementation.  It may contain a VariablePointer from the EBN
     MIB.


4.1.  EBN MIB Structure

The EBN MIB module contains the following groups of objects:


o    ebnDir - subnet information about LUs.

o    ebnIsRscv - provides the RSCV (Route Selection Control Vector) and
     COS for the subnetwork on the BIND destination side of the EBN.

o    ebnDirConfig - objects related to the EBN directory.

o    ebnCos - COS mapping between subnetworks,

o    ebnSubnetRoutingList - the customer-supplied list of where to
     forward search requests.

o    hbn - HPR (High Performance Routing) EBN intermediate session
     information.


These groups are described below in more detail.


4.1.1.  enbDir group

The ebnDir group contains the ebnDirTable, which is an extension to the
appnDirTable.  It specifies the subnet affiliation of LUs in the EBNs
directory.


4.1.2.  ebnIsRscv group

The ebnIsRscv group contains the ebnIsRscvTable, which is an extension



Expires March 1, 1998                                           *Page 4*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


to the appnIsInTable.  The appnIsInTable only allows for the RSCV and
COS name for one subnetwork involved in the session.  This extension
contains the RSCV and COS name for the other subnetwork.

When an EBN changes RSCVs before forwarding a BIND, appnIsInRouteInfo
contains the incoming RSCV, and ebnIsRscvDestinationRoute contains the
outgoing RSCV.

The following three cases illustrate the contents of appnIsInRouteInfo
and ebnIsRscvDestinationRoute at Extended Border Nodes.


1) EBN connected to another EBN

**subnet 1**=B3----ISTG -------=B3**subnet 2**
           EBN1             EBN2
PLU                                    SLU
---------------------------->=B3
      (1)      =B3------------>=B3
                    (2)      =B3----------->
                                  (3)

PLU =3D Primary Logical Unit (session initiator)
SLU =3D Secondary Logical Unit (session destination)

The value of appnIsInRouteInfo object at EBN1 is the RSCV containing the
route, represented by (1), from the PLU (or the entry EBN in its subnet)
to EBN2.  The value of ebnIsRscvDestinationRoute object at EBN1  is  the
RSCV,  represented  by  (2),  containing  the one-hop route from EBN1 to
EBN2. The appnIsInRouteInfo  object  at  EBN2  also  contains  the  RSCV
represented  by  (2).  The value of ebnIsRscvDestinationRoute in EBN2 is
the RSVC containing the route to the SLU (or to the next subnet's  entry
EBN), represented by (3).
















Expires March 1, 1998                                           *Page 5*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997



2) EBN connected to a NN or PBN

**subnet 1**=B3----ISTG ------=B3**subnet 2**
           EBN1           NN/PBN
PLU
--------------------------->=B3            SLU
    (1)     =B3----------------------------->
                         (2)

The value of the appnIsInRouteInfo object at EBN1 is the RSCV containing
the  route  from  the  PLU (or the entry EBN in its subnet) to the NN or
PBN, represented by (1).  The  value  of  the  ebnIsRscvDestinationRoute
object  at  EBN1  is the RSCV containing the route from EBN1 to the SLU,
represented by (2). Note that the SLU must be in subnet 2,  because  the
entry  node  is  an NN or PBN rather than an EBN.  The appnIsInRouteInfo
object at NN/PBN contains the same RSCV, as represented by (2).



3) NN or PBN connected to EBN

**subnet 1**=B3----ISTG -------=B3**subnet 2**
          NN/PBN            EBN1
PLU
-----------------------------=B3          SLU
          (1)                =B3----------->
                                  (2)

The value of the appnIsInRouteInfo object at  the  NN/PBN  is  the  RSCV
containing  the  route  from  the PLU to EBN1, represented by (1).  Note
that the PLU must be in subnet 1, because the exit  node  is  an  NN/PBN
rather  than an EBN.   The appnIsInRouteInfo object at EBN1 contains the
same RSCV.  The value of the ebnIsRscvDestinationRoute object at EBN1 is
the RSCV containing the route from EBN1 to the SLU (or the next subnet's
entry border node), as represented by (2).


The following three cases illustrate the contents of
ebnIsRscvDestinationCos at Extended Border Nodes.









Expires March 1, 1998                                           *Page 6*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997



1) EBN connected to another EBN

**subnet 1**=B3----ISTG -------=B3**subnet 2**
          EBN1              EBN2
PLU                                          SLU
          COS A
----------------------------->=B3
                                    COS B
                              =B3-------------->


PLU =3D Primary Logical Unit (session initiator)
SLU =3D Secondary Logical Unit (session destination)

The value of ebnIsRscvDestinationCos object at EBN1 is COS A.
The value of ebnIsRscvDestinationCos object at EBN2 is COS B.



2) EBN connected to a NN or PBN

**subnet 1**=B3----ISTG ------=B3**subnet 2**
           EBN1           NN/PBN
PLU                                          SLU
    COS A
------------>=B3
                           COS B
             =B3--------------------------------->


The value of the ebvIsRscvDestinationCos object at EBN1 is COS B.

















Expires March 1, 1998                                           *Page 7*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997



3) NN or PBN connected to EBN

**subnet 1**=B3----ISTG -------=B3**subnet 2**
          NN/PBN            EBN1
PLU                                     SLU
       COS A
---------------------------->=B3
                                   COS B
                             =B3----------->


The value of the ebnIsRscvDestinationCos object at the EBN2 is COSB.



4.1.3.  ebnDirConfig group

The ebnDirConfig group consists of simple objects that provide EBN-
specific information about directory caching and the local default value
for the maximum number of subnetworks a LOCATE search procedure may
traverse.


4.1.4.  ebnCos group

The ebnCos group contains the ebnCosMapTable, which specifies how COS
values are mapped between the non-native subnetwork and the native
subnetwork.


4.1.5.  ebnSubnetRoutingList group

The ebnSubnetRoutingList group contains information about the customer-
supplied EBN subnetwork routing list, which indicates to which adjacent
nodes an EBN will forward LOCATE search requests. It consists of the
following tables:

1) ebnSubnetSearchTable

This table has an entry for each LU name that has a defined subnet
routing list.  The LU name may identify a single LU, or it may contain a
wildcard character that could identify a group of LUs (partial wildcard)
or all LUs (full wildcard).  The objects in the table indicate whether
the EBN may add dynamic entries to the subnet routing list, and whether
the subnet routing list entries may be reordered for better search



Expires March 1, 1998                                           *Page 8*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


performance.

2) ebnSearchTable

This table has an entry for each control point name which is included in
a multi-subnet search for a particular LU name.  The index to the table
is the LU name to be searched for, and an index which lists the order in
which the CP names are to be searched.  Both the CP name and the LU name
entries in the table allow for partial and full wildcards.  The CP name
also allows for  special entries that indicate that the EBN will search
itself and its own native subnetwork at this point in the search, or
will search all native EBNs.


4.1.6.  hbn group

The hbn group contains information about HBN (HPR EBN) intermediate
sessions.  The hbnIsInTable is an extension to the appnIsInTable.  This
table is present for intermediate sessions when     there are back-to-
back RTP (Rapid Transport Protocol) connections in an HBN.  It provides
the NCE ID (network connection endpoint identifier) and TCID (transport
connection identifier) for the second RTP connection.



























Expires March 1, 1998                                           *Page 9*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


5.  Definitions

EBN-MIB DEFINITIONS ::=3D BEGIN

 IMPORTS
         MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, Unsigned32
                     FROM SNMPv2-SMI
         MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP
                      FROM SNMPv2-CONF
         DisplayString,  TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
                     FROM SNMPv2-TC
         SnaControlPointName
                 -- Because the characters allowed in an SNA control
                 -- point name come from a restricted character set,
                 -- these names are not subject to internationalization.
                 FROM APPN-MIB
         snanauMIB
                 FROM SNA-NAU-MIB;

 ebnMIB   MODULE-IDENTITY
        LAST-UPDATED "9709011200Z"
        ORGANIZATION  "IETF SNA NAU MIB WG / AIW APPN MIBs SIG"
        CONTACT-INFO
                "
                        Bob Clouston
                        Cisco Systems
                        7025 Kit Creek Road
                        P.O. Box 14987
                        Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA
                        Tel:    1 919 472 2333
                        E-mail: clouston@cisco.com

                        Bob Moore
                        IBM Corporation
                        BRQA/501
                        P.O. Box 12195
                        Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA
                        Tel:    1 919 254 4436
                        E-mail: remoore@us.ibm.com

                        Katie D. Lee
                        IBM Corporation
                        RHJA/501
                        P.O. Box 12195
                        Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA
                        Tel:    1 919 254 7507



Expires March 1, 1998                                          *Page 10*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


                        E-mail: kdlee@vnet.ibm.com
                "

        DESCRIPTION
            " The MIB Module for Extended Border Node"

        ::=3D { snanauMIB 7 }
 -- snanauMIB ::=3D { mib-2 34 }

 -- *******************************************************************
 -- Textual Conventions
 -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
 SnaNAUWildcardName   ::=3D TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Fully-qualified network NAU name. Entries take one of three
          forms:
             - Explicit entries do not contain the character '*'.
             - Partial Wildcard entries have the form 'ccc*', where
               'ccc' represents one to sixteen characters in a legal
               SNA NAU Name.
             - A full wildcard  consists of a single character '*'.

          Because the characters allowed in an SNA NAU name come from
          a restricted character set, these names are not subject to
          internationalization."

 SYNTAX DisplayString(SIZE(1..17))

 -- *******************************************************************
 ebnObjects              OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=3D { ebnMIB 1 }
 -- *******************************************************************

 -- *******************************************************************
 -- EBN Directory Group
 -- The ebnDirTable is an extension to the appnDirTable.  It specifies
 -- the subnet information about LUs in the EBN's directory.
 -- *******************************************************************

 ebnDir                  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=3D { ebnObjects 1 }

 ebnDirTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF EbnDirEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION



Expires March 1, 1998                                          *Page 11*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


          "The EBN Directory Table."
      ::=3D { ebnDir 1}

 ebnDirEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX EbnDirEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Entry in the EBN Directory Table."

      INDEX { ebnDirLuName }

      ::=3D { ebnDirTable 1 }

 EbnDirEntry ::=3D SEQUENCE {
         ebnDirLuName             SnaNAUWildcardName,
         ebnDirSubnetAffiliation  INTEGER     }

 ebnDirLuName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SnaNAUWildcardName
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Fully qualified network LU name in the domain of the serving
          network node."

      ::=3D { ebnDirEntry 1 }

 ebnDirSubnetAffiliation OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER { native (1),
                       nonNative (2),
                       subarea (3) }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Specifies the subnetwork affiliation of the LU:
              - native(1)    : The LU is in the native APPN subnetwork.
              - nonNative(2) : The LU is in a non-native APPN subnetwork.
              - subarea(3)   : The LU is in a subarea network."

      ::=3D { ebnDirEntry 2 }

 -- *******************************************************************
 -- EBN Intermediate Session RSCV Group
 -- This table is an extension to the appnIsInTable. It contains the
 -- RSCV and COS used in the direction of the BIND destination.



Expires March 1, 1998                                          *Page 12*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


 -- *******************************************************************

 ebnIsRscv               OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=3D { ebnObjects 2 }

 ebnIsRscvTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF EbnIsRscvEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The EBN Intermediate Session RSCV table"

      ::=3D { ebnIsRscv 1}

 ebnIsRscvEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX EbnIsRscvEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Entry in ebnIsRscvTable."
      INDEX { ebnIsRscvCpName,
              ebnIsRscvPcid }

      ::=3D { ebnIsRscvTable 1 }

 EbnIsRscvEntry ::=3D SEQUENCE {
         ebnIsRscvCpName            SnaControlPointName,
         ebnIsRscvPcid              OCTET STRING,
         ebnIsRscvDestinationRoute  OCTET STRING,
         ebnIsRscvDestinationCos    DisplayString }

 ebnIsRscvCpName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SnaControlPointName
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The network-qualified control point name of the node at which
          the session and PCID originated.  For APPN and LEN nodes, this
          is either CP name of the APPN node at which the origin LU is
          located or the CP name of the NN serving the LEN node at which
          the origin LU is located.  For DLUR resources it is the name of
          the owning SSCP.  "

      ::=3D { ebnIsRscvEntry 1 }

 ebnIsRscvPcid OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))



Expires March 1, 1998                                          *Page 13*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The procedure correlation identifier (PCID) of a session.  It
          is an 8-octet value."

      ::=3D { ebnIsRscvEntry 2 }

 ebnIsRscvDestinationRoute OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING(SIZE (0..255))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The route selection control vector (RSCV x'2B') used in the
          direction towards the SLU."

      ::=3D { ebnIsRscvEntry 3 }

 ebnIsRscvDestinationCos OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (1..8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The Class of Service (COS) name used in the direction towards
          the SLU."

      ::=3D { ebnIsRscvEntry 4 }

 -- *******************************************************************
 -- EBN Directory Config Group
 -- The following simple objects provide information about EBN directory.
 -- *******************************************************************

 ebnDirConfig            OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=3D { ebnObjects 3 }

 ebnSearchCacheTime    OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Unsigned32
      UNITS "minutes"
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The amount of time in minutes an extended border node will
          retain information about a multi-subnetwork search, once that
          that search terminates.  A value 0 indicates that the EBN has
          no defined limit, and the number of entries is bounded only by
          memory."



Expires March 1, 1998                                          *Page 14*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


      ::=3D { ebnDirConfig 1 }

 ebnMaxSearchCache OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Unsigned32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The maximum number of multi-subnet entries to be cached.  The
          value 0 indicates that the local node has no defined limit, and
          the number of entries is bounded only by memory."

      ::=3D { ebnDirConfig 2 }

 ebnDefaultSubnetVisitCount  OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Unsigned32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The default maximum number of subnetworks a LOCATE search
          procedure may traverse."

 ::=3D { ebnDirConfig  3 }

 -- *******************************************************************
 -- EBN COS Mapping Group
 -- The ebnCosMap Table specifies how non-native COS values are mapped
 -- to a COS value which is defined in the native subnetwork.  This
 -- table defines the mappings that actually take place, as opposed to
 -- the user-defined mappings.
 -- *******************************************************************

 ebnCOS                  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=3D { ebnObjects 4 }

 ebnCosMapTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF EbnCosMapEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The EBN COS Mapping Table."

      ::=3D { ebnCOS 1}

 ebnCosMapEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX EbnCosMapEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current



Expires March 1, 1998                                          *Page 15*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


      DESCRIPTION
          "An entry in the EBN COS Mapping table."

      INDEX { ebnCosMapCpName,
              ebnCosMapNonNativeCos }

 ::=3D { ebnCosMapTable 1 }

 EbnCosMapEntry ::=3D SEQUENCE {
         ebnCosMapCpName              SnaNAUWildcardName,
         ebnCosMapNonNativeCos        DisplayString,
         ebnCosMapNativeCos           DisplayString }

 ebnCosMapCpName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SnaNAUWildcardName
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Fully qualified network CP name for which the COS mapping
          applies."

     ::=3D { ebnCosMapEntry 1 }

 ebnCosMapNonNativeCos OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE(1..8))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "An 8-byte name for the class-of-service, as known in the non-
          native subnetwork.  This variable may contain one '*'
          character, indicating a default class-of-service mapping,
          rather than a COS name.  If the non-native COS name to be
          mapped cannot be found in the cos mapping tablee, then the '*'
          is used to resolve the native/non-native COS.  Only one non-
          native COS name per CP name can have a '*'.  "

      ::=3D { ebnCosMapEntry 2 }

 ebnCosMapNativeCos OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE(1..8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
         "An 8-byte name for the class-of-service, as known in the native
         subnetwork."




Expires March 1, 1998                                          *Page 16*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


      ::=3D { ebnCosMapEntry 3 }

 -- *******************************************************************
 -- EBN Subnet Routing List Group
 -- The EBN Subnet Routing List indicates to which nodes an EBN forwards
 -- search request.  This group contains information pertaining to the
 -- customer-supplied Subnet Routing List.
 -- *******************************************************************

 ebnSubnetRoutingList    OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=3D { ebnObjects 5 }

 ebnSubnetSearchTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF EbnSubnetSearchEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This table contains one entry for each fully qualified LU name
          defined to have an associated subnet routing list.  Each entry
          contains general characteristics of the subnet search routing
          list for each LU name."

      ::=3D { ebnSubnetRoutingList 1}

 ebnSubnetSearchEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX EbnSubnetSearchEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "An entry for the ebnSubnetSearchTable."

      INDEX { ebnSubnetSearchLuName }

      ::=3D { ebnSubnetSearchTable 1 }

 EbnSubnetSearchEntry ::=3D SEQUENCE {
         ebnSubnetSearchLuName   SnaNAUWildcardName,
         ebnSubnetSearchDynamics INTEGER,
         ebnSubnetSearchOrdering INTEGER   }

 ebnSubnetSearchLuName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SnaNAUWildcardName
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Fully qualified network LU name."




Expires March 1, 1998                                          *Page 17*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


      ::=3D { ebnSubnetSearchEntry 1 }

 ebnSubnetSearchDynamics OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER { none(1),
                       limited (2),
                       full (3) }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether an EBN may add dynamic entries to a
          subnetwork routing list.  none(1) means no entries may be added
          to the subnetwork routing list.  limited(2) means only likely
          entries may be added to the subnetwork routing list.  full(3)
          means all native extended border nodes and adjacent, non-native
          EBNs and NNs will be added to the subnetwork routing list."

      ::=3D { ebnSubnetSearchEntry 2 }

 ebnSubnetSearchOrdering OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX INTEGER{ priority(1),
                      defined(2) }
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Indicates whether an EBN may reorder a subnetwork routing list
          so that entries which are more likely to be successful are at
          the top of the subnetwork routing list and entries which are
          more likely to be unsuccessful are at the bottom of the list."

      ::=3D { ebnSubnetSearchEntry 3 }

 -- Border node search table

 ebnSearchTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF EbnSearchEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This table indicates where an EBN sends Locate searches for a
          given fully qualified LU name.  Each entry in the table
          indicates one control point that should be included in a multi-
          subnet search for a particular LU name.  "

      ::=3D { ebnSubnetRoutingList 2}

 ebnSearchEntry OBJECT-TYPE



Expires March 1, 1998                                          *Page 18*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


      SYNTAX EbnSearchEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "An entry in the ebnSearchTable."

      INDEX { ebnSearchLuName,
              ebnSearchIndex }

      ::=3D { ebnSearchTable 1 }

 EbnSearchEntry ::=3D SEQUENCE {
         ebnSearchLuName  SnaNAUWildcardName,
         ebnSearchIndex   Unsigned32,
         ebnSearchCpName  DisplayString,
         ebnSearchSNVC    Unsigned32  }

 ebnSearchLuName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SnaNAUWildcardName
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Fully qualified network LU name."

      ::=3D { ebnSearchEntry 1 }

 ebnSearchIndex OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Unsigned32
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Secondary index which enumerates the order in which a search
          is forwarded to CPs for a particular LU name."

      ::=3D { ebnSearchEntry 2 }

 ebnSearchCpName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX DisplayString(SIZE(1..17))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "This object specifies the CP(s) to which a search should be
          forwarded.  It either follows the SnaNAUWildcardName textual
          convention or takes one of the following special formats:

             '*' indicates that all native EBNs and all adjacent non-



Expires March 1, 1998                                          *Page 19*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


             native EBNs and NNs may be added to the routing list
             dynamically,

             '*SELF' indicates that the EBN should search itself and its
             native subnetwork at this time during the cross-subnet
             search,

             '*EBNS' indicates all native EBNs."

      ::=3D { ebnSearchEntry 3 }

 ebnSearchSNVC OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX Unsigned32
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The maximum number of subnets a Locate search procedure may
          traverse.  "

      ::=3D { ebnSearchEntry 4 }

 -- *******************************************************************
 -- HPR Extended Border Node Intermediate Session  Group
 -- The hbnIsInTable is an extension to the appnIsInTable.
 -- In the case where there are back-to-back RTP connections
 -- in an HBN, this table is necessary to provide the NceId
 -- and Tcid for the second RTP connection.
 -- *******************************************************************

 hbn                     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=3D { ebnObjects 6 }

 hbnIsInTable OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF HbnIsInEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The HBN Intermediate Session table."

      ::=3D { hbn 1}

 hbnIsInEntry OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX HbnIsInEntry
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Entry of the HBN Intermediate Session Table."



Expires March 1, 1998                                          *Page 20*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


      INDEX { hbnIsInFqCpName,
              hbnIsInPcid }

 ::=3D { hbnIsInTable 1 }

 HbnIsInEntry ::=3D SEQUENCE {
         hbnIsInFqCpName    SnaControlPointName,
         hbnIsInPcid        OCTET STRING,
         hbnIsInRtpNceId    OCTET STRING,
         hbnIsInRtpTcid     OCTET STRING }

 hbnIsInFqCpName OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX SnaControlPointName
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The network-qualified control point name of the node at which
          the session and PCID originated.  For APPN and LEN nodes, this
          is either the CP name of the APPN node at which the origin LU
          is located or the CP name of the NN serving the LEN node at
          which the origin LU is located.  "

      ::=3D { hbnIsInEntry 1 }

 hbnIsInPcid OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE(8))
      MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The procedure correlation identifier (PCID) of a session.  It
          is an 8-octet value."

      ::=3D { hbnIsInEntry 2 }

 hbnIsInRtpNceId OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The HPR local Network Connection Endpoint of the session in
          the direction of the SLU.  When this object exists, the
          appnIsInRtpNceId object contains the HPR local Network
          Connection Endpoint of the session in the direction of the
          PLU."

      ::=3D { hbnIsInEntry 3 }



Expires March 1, 1998                                          *Page 21*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


 hbnIsInRtpTcid OBJECT-TYPE
      SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE(8))
      MAX-ACCESS read-only
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The RTP connection local TCID of the session in the direction
          of the SLU.  When this object exists, the appnIsInRtpTcid
          object contains the RTP connection local TCID of the session in
          the direction of the PLU."

 ::=3D { hbnIsInEntry 4 }

 -- *******************************************************************
 -- Conformance Statement
 -- *******************************************************************
 ebnConformance          OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=3D { ebnMIB 2 }

 ebnCompliances          OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=3D { ebnConformance 1 }
 ebnGroups               OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::=3D { ebnConformance 2 }

 -- Compliance statements
 ebnCompliance     MODULE-COMPLIANCE
      STATUS current
       DESCRIPTION
       "The compliance statement for the SNMPv2 entites which implement
       the ebnMIB."

    MODULE   -- this module

    --  Unconditionally mandatory groups
        MANDATORY-GROUPS {
                 ebnDirectoryGroup,
                 ebnIsRscvGroup,
                 ebnDirectoryConfigGroup,
                 ebnCosMappingGroup,
                 ebnSubnetRoutingListGroup }

    -- Conditionally mandatory groups
       GROUP hbnIsInGroup
       DESCRIPTION
           "The hbnIsInGroup is mandatory only for HPR extended border
           nodes."

       ::=3D {ebnCompliances 1}

 -- Group definitions



Expires March 1, 1998                                          *Page 22*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


 ebnDirectoryGroup OBJECT-GROUP
      OBJECTS { ebnDirSubnetAffiliation }
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The EBN-related directory objects."

      ::=3D { ebnGroups 1 }


 ebnIsRscvGroup OBJECT-GROUP
      OBJECTS { ebnIsRscvDestinationRoute,
                ebnIsRscvDestinationCos }
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "Two objects representing RSCV and class of service information
          saved by an EBN."

      ::=3D { ebnGroups 2 }

 ebnDirectoryConfigGroup OBJECT-GROUP
      OBJECTS { ebnSearchCacheTime,
                ebnMaxSearchCache,
                ebnDefaultSubnetVisitCount }
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The EBN Directory Configuration Group."

      ::=3D { ebnGroups 3 }

 ebnCosMappingGroup OBJECT-GROUP
      OBJECTS {  ebnCosMapNativeCos }
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The EBN COS Mapping Group."

      ::=3D { ebnGroups 4 }

 ebnSubnetRoutingListGroup OBJECT-GROUP
      OBJECTS { ebnSubnetSearchDynamics,
                ebnSubnetSearchOrdering,
                ebnSearchCpName,
                 ebnSearchSNVC }
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The Subnet Routing List Group."




Expires March 1, 1998                                          *Page 23*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


      ::=3D { ebnGroups 5 }

 hbnIsInGroup OBJECT-GROUP
      OBJECTS { hbnIsInRtpNceId, hbnIsInRtpTcid }
      STATUS current
      DESCRIPTION
          "The HBN-related Intermediate Session Objects."

      ::=3D { ebnGroups 6 }

END






































Expires March 1, 1998                                          *Page 24*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


6.  Acknowledgments

This MIB module is the product of the IETF SNA NAU MIB WG and the AIW
APPN/HPR MIBs SIG.  Thanks to Dave Billing, Cisco Systems; Bob Moore,
IBM Corporation; and Marcia Peters, IBM Corporation, for their
contributions and review.


7.  References


*1*  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S.
     Waldbusser, "Structure of Management Information for version 2 of
     the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902, January
     1996.

*2*  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S.
     Waldbusser, "Textual Conventions for Version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1903, January 1996.

*3*  SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S.
     Waldbusser, "Conformance Statements for Version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1904, January 1996.

*4*  Clouston, B., and B. Moore, "Definition of Managed Objects for
     APPN", Cisco Systems, IBM Corporation, November 1996.

*5*  IBM, APPN Extended Border Node Architecture Reference Version 1.0,
     available only via anonymous FTP at networking.raleigh.ibm.com, as
     /pub/standards/aiw/appn/bordernode/ebn4.psbin.

*6*  IBM, SNA/MS Formats, GC31-8302-00

















Expires March 1, 1998                                          *Page 25*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


8.  Security Considerations

In most cases, MIBs are not themselves security risks; if SNMP security
is operating as intended, the use of a MIB to view information about a
system, or to change some parameter at the system, is a tool, not a
threat.

None of the read-only objects in the EBN MIB reports a password, user
data, or anything else that is particularly sensitive.  Some enterprises
view their network configuration itself, as well as information about
network usage and performance, as corporate assets; such enterprises may
wish to restrict SNMP access to most of the objects in the MIB.

There are no read-write objects in the EBN MIB.


9.  Authors' Addresses

Bob Clouston
Cisco Systems
7025 Kit Creek Road
P.O. Box 14987
Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA

Tel:    1 919 472 2333
E-mail: clouston@cisco.com


Bob Moore
IBM Corporation
BRQA/501
P.O. Box 12195
Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA

Tel:    1 919 254 4436
E-mail: remoore@us.ibm.com


Katie D. Lee
IBM Corporation
RHJA/501
P.O. Box 12195
Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA

Tel:    1 919 254 7507
E-mail: kdlee@vnet.ibm.com



Expires March 1, 1998                                          *Page 26*
*
Internet Draft               SNANAU EBN MIB               September 1997


10.  Table of Contents


   1.     Status of this Memo  ....................................  1
   2.     Introduction  ...........................................  2
   3.     The SNMP Network Management Framework  ..................  2
   4.     Overview  ...............................................  2
   4.1      EBN MIB structure .....................................  4
   5.     Definitions  ............................................  10
   6.     Acknowledgments  ........................................  25
   7.     References  .............................................  25
   8.     Security Considerations  ................................  26
   9.     Author's Addresses  .....................................  26




































Expires March 1, 1998                                          *Page 27*
*


