



Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


  Token Ring Extensions to the Remote Network Monitoring MIB
             draft-ietf-rmonmib-tokenring-01.txt
                        March 2, 2001


                      Steven Waldbusser

                  waldbusser@nextbeacon.com





Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance
with all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet
Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working
groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
documents at any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-
Drafts as reference material or to cite them other than as
"work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed
at http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.

Abstract

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base
(MIB) for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-
based internets. In particular, it defines extensions to the
Remote Network Monitoring MIB for managing 802.5 Token Ring





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001          [Page 1]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


networks.

The Remote Network Monitoring MIB, RFC2819, defines a
framework for remote monitoring functions implemented on a
network probe.  That MIB defines objects broken down into nine
functional groups.  Some of those functional groups, the
statistics and the history groups, have a view of the data-
link layer that is specific to the media type and require
specific objects to be defined for each media type.  RFC2819
defined those specific objects necessary for Ethernet.  This
companion memo defines those specific objects necessary for
Token Ring LANs.

In addition, this memo defines some additional monitoring
functions specifically for Token Ring.  These are defined in
the Ring Station Group, the Ring Station Order Group, the Ring
Station Configuration Group, and the Source Routing Statistics
Group.

1.  The SNMP Management Framework

   The SNMP Management Framework presently consists of five
   major components:

    o   An overall architecture, described in RFC 2571 [1].

    o   Mechanisms for describing and naming objects and
        events for the purpose of management. The first
        version of this Structure of Management Information
        (SMI) is called SMIv1 and described in STD 16, RFC
        1155 [2], STD 16, RFC 1212 [3] and RFC 1215 [4]. The
        second version, called SMIv2, is described in STD 58,
        RFC 2578 [5], RFC 2579 [6] and RFC 2580 [7].

    o   Message protocols for transferring management
        information. The first version of the SNMP message
        protocol is called SNMPv1 and described in STD 15, RFC
        1157 [8]. A second version of the SNMP message
        protocol, which is not an Internet standards track
        protocol, is called SNMPv2c and described in RFC 1901
        [9] and RFC 1906 [10]. The third version of the
        message protocol is called SNMPv3 and described in RFC
        1906 [10], RFC 2572 [11] and RFC 2574 [12].







Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001          [Page 2]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    o   Protocol operations for accessing management
        information. The first set of protocol operations and
        associated PDU formats is described in STD 15, RFC
        1157 [8]. A second set of protocol operations and
        associated PDU formats is described in RFC 1905 [13].

    o   A set of fundamental applications described in RFC
        2573 [14] and the view-based access control mechanism
        described in RFC 2575 [15].

   A more detailed introduction to the current SNMP Management
   Framework can be found in RFC 2570 [18].

   Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information
   store, termed the Management Information Base or MIB.
   Objects in the MIB are defined using the mechanisms defined
   in the SMI.

   This memo specifies a MIB module that is compliant to the
   SMIv2. A MIB conforming to the SMIv1 can be produced
   through the appropriate translations. The resulting
   translated MIB must be semantically equivalent, except
   where objects or events are omitted because no translation
   is possible (use of Counter64). Some machine readable
   information in SMIv2 will be converted into textual
   descriptions in SMIv1 during the translation process.
   However, this loss of machine readable information is not
   considered to change the semantics of the MIB.






















Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001          [Page 3]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


2.  Guidelines for implementing RFC2819 objects on a Token
Ring network

Wherever a MacAddress is to be used in this MIB the source
routing bit is stripped off.  The resulting address will be
consistently valid for all packets sent by a particular node.


2.1.  Host Group

Only Token Ring isolating errors will increment the error
counter for a particular hostEntry.  The isolating errors are:
LineErrors, BurstErrors, ACErrors, InternalErrors, and
AbortErrors.  ACErrors will increment the error counter only
for the nearest upstream neighbor of the station reporting the
error.  LineErrors and BurstErrors will increment the error
counters for the station reporting the error and its nearest
upstream neighbor.  InternalErrors and AbortErrors will
increment the error counter for the station reporting the
error only.  In addition to these isolating errors,
congestionErrors will be incremented in the host entry of the
station that reports the errors in an error report frame.

The hostOutPkts and hostOutOctets counters shall not be
incremented for packets with errors because the monitor cannot
receive all error packets with which to update these
statistics.


2.2.  Matrix Group

Error counters are never incremented because the monitor
cannot recieve all error packets with which to update these
counters.


2.3.  Filter Group

The following conditions make up the status bitmask for token
ring networks:
     bit #    Status
         3    First packet after some packets were dropped
         4    Packet with the Frame Copied Bit set
         5    Packet with the Address Recognized Bit set






Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001          [Page 4]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


For the purpose of the packet match algorithm, the filters
assume a 32 byte RIF field.  Thus, when matching, the filter
is compared to the packet starting at the AC byte of the
packet, until the end of the RIF field; then the unused RIF
bytes in the filter are skipped and matching proceeds from
that point.  Any filter "care" bits in the RIF that don't
correspond to bytes in the input packet will cause the filter
to fail.


2.4.  Other comments

Because soft error report packets may be sent with assured
delivery, some errors may be accidently reported twice on
devices that perform the RMON function promiscuously.



































Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001          [Page 5]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


3.  Overview of the RMON Token Ring Extensions MIB

The Remote Network Monitoring MIB, RFC2819, defines a
framework for remote monitoring functions implemented on a
network probe.  That MIB defines objects broken down into nine
functional groups.  Some of those functional groups, the
statistics and the history groups, have a view of the data-
link layer that is specific to the media type and require
specific objects to be defined for each media type.  RFC2819
defined those specific objects necessary for Ethernet.  This
MIB defines contains four groups that define those specific
objects necessary for Token Ring LANs.

In addition, this memo defines some additional monitoring
functions specifically for Token Ring.  These are defined in
the Ring Station Group, the Ring Station Order Group, the Ring
Station Configuration Group, and the Source Routing Statistics
Group.

3.1.  The Token Ring Statistics Groups

The Token Ring statistics groups contain current utilization
and error statistics.  The statistics are broken down into two
groups, the Token Ring Mac-Layer Statistics Group and the
Token Ring Promiscuous Statistics Group.  The Token Ring Mac-
Layer Statistics Group collects information from Mac Layer,
including error reports for the ring and ring utilization of
the Mac Layer.  The Token Ring Promiscuous Statistics Group
collects utilization statistics from data packets collected
promiscuously.

3.2.  The Token Ring History Groups

The Token Ring History Groups contain historical utilization
and error statistics.  The statistics are broken down into two
groups, the Token Ring Mac-Layer History Group and the Token
Ring Promiscuous History Group.  The Token Ring Mac-Layer
History Group collects information from Mac Layer, including
error reports for the ring and ring utilization of the Mac
Layer.  The Token Ring Promiscuous History Group collects
utilization statistics from data packets collected
promiscuously.








Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001          [Page 6]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


3.3.  The Token Ring Ring Station Group

The Token Ring Ring Station Group contains statistics and
status information associated with each Token Ring station on
the local ring.  In addition, this group provides status
information for each ring being monitored.

3.4.  The Token Ring Ring Station Order Group

The Token Ring Ring Station Order Group provides the order of
the stations on monitored rings.

3.5.  The Token Ring Ring Station Config Group

The Token Ring Ring Station Config Group manages token ring
stations through active means.  Any station on a monitored
ring may be removed or have configuration information
downloaded from it.

3.6.  The Token Ring Source Routing Group

The Token Ring Source Routing Group contains utilization
statistics derived from source routing information optionally
present in token ring packets.

4.  Terminology

The 802.5 specification [20] defines the term "good frame" as
a frame that is bounded by a valid SD and ED, is an integral
number of octets in length, is composed of only 0 and 1 bits
between the SD and the ED, has the FF bits of the GC field
equal to 00 or 01, has a valid FCS, and has a minimum of 18
octets between the SD and the ED.  This document will use the
term "good frame" in the same manner.
















Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001          [Page 7]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


5.  Definitions

TOKEN-RING-RMON-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE,
    Counter32, Integer32                   FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    TimeInterval, TimeStamp, MacAddress    FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP        FROM SNMPv2-CONF
    InterfaceIndex                         FROM IF-MIB
    OwnerString, EntryStatus,
    rmon, statistics, history,
    rmonCompliances, rmonGroups            FROM RMON-MIB;


--  Token Ring Remote Network Monitoring MIB

tokenRing MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "200103021500Z"  -- March 2, 2001
    ORGANIZATION "IETF RMON MIB Working Group"
    CONTACT-INFO
        "Steve Waldbusser

        Phone: +1-650-948-6500
        Fax:   +1-650-745-0671
        Email: waldbusser@nextbeacon.com

        Andy Bierman
        WG Chair
        abierman@cisco.com

        RMONMIB WG Mailing List
        rmonmib@ietf.org
        http://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/rmonmib"
    DESCRIPTION
        "Remote network monitoring devices, often called
        monitors or probes, are instruments that exist for
        the purpose of managing a network. This MIB defines
        objects for managing remote network monitoring devices."

    REVISION "200103021500Z"    -- March 2, 2001
    DESCRIPTION
        "Reformatted into SMIv2 format.

        This version published as RFC XXXX."





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001          [Page 8]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    REVISION "9309010000Z"    -- 1 September, 1993
    DESCRIPTION
        "The original version of this MIB, published as RFC1513."
    ::= { rmon 10 }














































Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001          [Page 9]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


-- The Token Ring Mac-Layer Statistics Group
--
-- Implementation of this group is optional
-- Consult the MODULE-COMPLIANCE macro for the authoritative
-- conformance information for this MIB.

tokenRingMLStatsTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF TokenRingMLStatsEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A list of Mac-Layer Token Ring statistics
            entries."
    ::= { statistics 2 }

tokenRingMLStatsEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TokenRingMLStatsEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of Mac-Layer statistics kept for a
            particular Token Ring interface."
    INDEX { tokenRingMLStatsIndex }
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsTable 1 }

-- As an example, an instance of the tokenRingMLStatsMacOctets object
-- might be named tokenRingMLStatsMacOctets.1

TokenRingMLStatsEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    tokenRingMLStatsIndex                     Integer32,
    tokenRingMLStatsDataSource                OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
    tokenRingMLStatsDropEvents                Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsMacOctets                 Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsMacPkts                   Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsRingPurgeEvents           Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsRingPurgePkts             Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsBeaconEvents              Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsBeaconTime                TimeInterval,
    tokenRingMLStatsBeaconPkts                Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsClaimTokenEvents          Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsClaimTokenPkts            Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsNAUNChanges               Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsLineErrors                Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsInternalErrors            Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsBurstErrors               Counter32,





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 10]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    tokenRingMLStatsACErrors                  Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsAbortErrors               Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsLostFrameErrors           Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsCongestionErrors          Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsFrameCopiedErrors         Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsFrequencyErrors           Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsTokenErrors               Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsSoftErrorReports          Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsRingPollEvents            Counter32,
    tokenRingMLStatsOwner                     OwnerString,
    tokenRingMLStatsStatus                    EntryStatus
}

tokenRingMLStatsIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of this object uniquely identifies this
            tokenRingMLStats entry."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 1 }

tokenRingMLStatsDataSource OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     OBJECT IDENTIFIER
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This object identifies the source of the data
            that this tokenRingMLStats entry is configured to
            analyze.  This source can be any tokenRing
            interface on this device.  In order to identify a
            particular interface, this object shall identify
            the instance of the ifIndex object, defined in the
            IF-MIB [17], for the desired interface.  For
            example, if an entry were to receive data from
            interface #1, this object would be set to
            ifIndex.1.

            The statistics in this group reflect all error
            reports on the local network segment attached to
            the identified interface.

            This object may not be modified if the associated
            tokenRingMLStatsStatus object is equal to
            valid(1)."





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 11]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 2 }

tokenRingMLStatsDropEvents OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of events in which packets were
            dropped by the probe due to lack of resources.
            Note that this number is not necessarily the
            number of packets dropped; it is just the number
            of times this condition has been detected.  This
            value is the same as the corresponding
            tokenRingPStatsDropEvents."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 3 }

tokenRingMLStatsMacOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of octets of data in MAC packets
            (excluding those that were not good frames)
            received on the network (excluding framing bits
            but including FCS octets)."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 4 }

tokenRingMLStatsMacPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of MAC packets (excluding
            packets that were not good frames) received."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 5 }

tokenRingMLStatsRingPurgeEvents OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of times that the ring enters
            the ring purge state from normal ring state.  The
            ring purge state that comes in response to the
            claim token or beacon state is not counted."





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 12]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 6 }

tokenRingMLStatsRingPurgePkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of ring purge MAC packets
            detected by probe."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 7 }

tokenRingMLStatsBeaconEvents OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of times that the ring enters a
            beaconing state (beaconFrameStreamingState,
            beaconBitStreamingState,
            beaconSetRecoveryModeState, or
            beaconRingSignalLossState) from a non-beaconing
            state.  Note that a change of the source address
            of the beacon packet does not constitute a new
            beacon event."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 8 }

tokenRingMLStatsBeaconTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeInterval
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total amount of time that the ring has been
            in the beaconing state."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 9 }

tokenRingMLStatsBeaconPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of beacon MAC packets detected
            by the probe."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 10 }

tokenRingMLStatsClaimTokenEvents OBJECT-TYPE





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 13]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of times that the ring enters
            the claim token state from normal ring state or
            ring purge state.  The claim token state that
            comes in response to a beacon state is not
            counted."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 11 }

tokenRingMLStatsClaimTokenPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of claim token MAC packets
            detected by the probe."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 12 }

tokenRingMLStatsNAUNChanges OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of NAUN changes detected by the
            probe."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 13 }

tokenRingMLStatsLineErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of line errors reported in error
            reporting packets detected by the probe."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 14 }

tokenRingMLStatsInternalErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of adapter internal errors
            reported in error reporting packets detected by





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 14]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            the probe."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 15 }

tokenRingMLStatsBurstErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of burst errors reported in
            error reporting packets detected by the probe."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 16 }

tokenRingMLStatsACErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of AC (Address Copied)  errors
            reported in error reporting packets detected by
            the probe."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 17 }

tokenRingMLStatsAbortErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of abort delimiters reported in
            error reporting packets detected by the probe."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 18 }

tokenRingMLStatsLostFrameErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of lost frame errors reported in
            error reporting packets detected by the probe."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 19 }

tokenRingMLStatsCongestionErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 15]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            "The total number of receive congestion errors
            reported in error reporting packets detected by
            the probe."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 20 }

tokenRingMLStatsFrameCopiedErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of frame copied errors reported
            in error reporting packets detected by the probe."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 21 }

tokenRingMLStatsFrequencyErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of frequency errors reported in
            error reporting packets detected by the probe."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 22 }

tokenRingMLStatsTokenErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of token errors reported in
            error reporting packets detected by the probe."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 23 }

tokenRingMLStatsSoftErrorReports OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of soft error report frames
            detected by the probe."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 24 }

tokenRingMLStatsRingPollEvents OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 16]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of ring poll events detected by
            the probe (i.e. the number of ring polls initiated
            by the active monitor that were detected)."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 25 }

tokenRingMLStatsOwner OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     OwnerString
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The entity that configured this entry and is
            therefore using the resources assigned to it."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 26 }

tokenRingMLStatsStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     EntryStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this tokenRingMLStats entry."
    ::= { tokenRingMLStatsEntry 27 }




























Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 17]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


-- The Token Ring Promiscuous Statistics Group
--
-- Implementation of this group is optional
-- Consult the MODULE-COMPLIANCE macro for the authoritative
-- conformance information for this MIB.

tokenRingPStatsTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF TokenRingPStatsEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A list of promiscuous Token Ring statistics
            entries."
    ::= { statistics 3 }

tokenRingPStatsEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TokenRingPStatsEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of promiscuous statistics kept for
            non-MAC packets on a particular Token Ring
            interface."
    INDEX { tokenRingPStatsIndex }
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsTable 1 }

-- As an example, an instance of the tokenRingPStatsDataOctets object
-- might be named tokenRingPStatsDataOctets.1

TokenRingPStatsEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    tokenRingPStatsIndex                          Integer32,
    tokenRingPStatsDataSource                     OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
    tokenRingPStatsDropEvents                     Counter32,
    tokenRingPStatsDataOctets                     Counter32,
    tokenRingPStatsDataPkts                       Counter32,
    tokenRingPStatsDataBroadcastPkts              Counter32,
    tokenRingPStatsDataMulticastPkts              Counter32,
    tokenRingPStatsDataPkts18to63Octets           Counter32,
    tokenRingPStatsDataPkts64to127Octets          Counter32,
    tokenRingPStatsDataPkts128to255Octets         Counter32,
    tokenRingPStatsDataPkts256to511Octets         Counter32,
    tokenRingPStatsDataPkts512to1023Octets        Counter32,
    tokenRingPStatsDataPkts1024to2047Octets       Counter32,
    tokenRingPStatsDataPkts2048to4095Octets       Counter32,
    tokenRingPStatsDataPkts4096to8191Octets       Counter32,





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 18]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    tokenRingPStatsDataPkts8192to18000Octets      Counter32,
    tokenRingPStatsDataPktsGreaterThan18000Octets Counter32,
    tokenRingPStatsOwner                          OwnerString,
    tokenRingPStatsStatus                         EntryStatus
}

tokenRingPStatsIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of this object uniquely identifies this
            tokenRingPStats entry."
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 1 }

tokenRingPStatsDataSource OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     OBJECT IDENTIFIER
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This object identifies the source of the data
            that this tokenRingPStats entry is configured to
            analyze.  This source can be any tokenRing
            interface on this device.  In order to identify a
            particular interface, this object shall identify
            the instance of the ifIndex object, defined in IF-
            MIB [17], for the desired interface.  For example,
            if an entry were to receive data from interface
            #1, this object would be set to ifIndex.1.

            The statistics in this group reflect all non-MAC
            packets on the local network segment attached to
            the identified interface.

            This object may not be modified if the associated
            tokenRingPStatsStatus object is equal to
            valid(1)."
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 2 }

tokenRingPStatsDropEvents OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of events in which packets were





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 19]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            dropped by the probe due to lack of resources.
            Note that this number is not necessarily the
            number of packets dropped; it is just the number
            of times this condition has been detected.  This
            value is the same as the corresponding
            tokenRingMLStatsDropEvents"
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 3 }

tokenRingPStatsDataOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of octets of data in good frames
            received on the network (excluding framing bits
            but including FCS octets) in non-MAC packets."
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 4 }

tokenRingPStatsDataPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC packets in good
            frames received."
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 5 }

tokenRingPStatsDataBroadcastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            that were directed to an LLC broadcast address
            (0xFFFFFFFFFFFF or 0xC000FFFFFFFF)."
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 6 }

tokenRingPStatsDataMulticastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            that were directed to a local or global multicast
            or functional address.  Note that this number does





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 20]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            not include packets directed to the broadcast
            address."
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 7 }

tokenRingPStatsDataPkts18to63Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            that were between 18 and 63 octets in length
            inclusive, excluding framing bits but including
            FCS octets."
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 8 }

tokenRingPStatsDataPkts64to127Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            that were between 64 and 127 octets in length
            inclusive, excluding framing bits but including
            FCS octets."
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 9 }

tokenRingPStatsDataPkts128to255Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            that were between 128 and 255 octets in length
            inclusive, excluding framing bits but including
            FCS octets."
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 10 }

tokenRingPStatsDataPkts256to511Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            that were between 256 and 511 octets in length
            inclusive, excluding framing bits but including





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 21]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            FCS octets."
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 11 }

tokenRingPStatsDataPkts512to1023Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            that were between 512 and 1023 octets in length
            inclusive, excluding framing bits but including
            FCS octets."
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 12 }

tokenRingPStatsDataPkts1024to2047Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            that were between 1024 and 2047 octets in length
            inclusive, excluding framing bits but including
            FCS octets."
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 13 }

tokenRingPStatsDataPkts2048to4095Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            that were between 2048 and 4095 octets in length
            inclusive, excluding framing bits but including
            FCS octets."
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 14 }

tokenRingPStatsDataPkts4096to8191Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            that were between 4096 and 8191 octets in length
            inclusive, excluding framing bits but including
            FCS octets."





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 22]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 15 }

tokenRingPStatsDataPkts8192to18000Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            that were between 8192 and 18000 octets in length
            inclusive, excluding framing bits but including
            FCS octets."
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 16 }

tokenRingPStatsDataPktsGreaterThan18000Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            that were greater than 18000 octets in length,
            excluding framing bits but including FCS octets."
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 17 }

tokenRingPStatsOwner OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     OwnerString
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The entity that configured this entry and is
            therefore using the resources assigned to it."
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 18 }

tokenRingPStatsStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     EntryStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this tokenRingPStats entry."
    ::= { tokenRingPStatsEntry 19 }











Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 23]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


-- The Token Ring History Groups

-- When an entry in the historyControlTable is created that
-- identifies a token ring interface as its
-- historyControlDataSource, the probe shall create corresponding
-- entries in the tokenRingMLHistoryTable and/or the
-- tokenRingPHistoryTable, depending on which groups it supports.



-- The Token Ring Mac-Layer History Group
--
-- Implementation of this group is optional.
-- Implementation of this group requires implementation of the
-- historyControl group from RFC2819.
-- Consult the MODULE-COMPLIANCE macro for the authoritative
-- conformance information for this MIB.

tokenRingMLHistoryTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF TokenRingMLHistoryEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A list of Mac-Layer Token Ring statistics
            entries."
    ::= { history 3 }

tokenRingMLHistoryEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TokenRingMLHistoryEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of Mac-Layer statistics kept for a
            particular Token Ring interface."
    INDEX { tokenRingMLHistoryIndex,  tokenRingMLHistorySampleIndex }
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryTable 1 }

-- As an example, an instance of the tokenRingMLHistoryMacOctets
-- object might be named tokenRingMLHistoryMacOctets.1.27

TokenRingMLHistoryEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    tokenRingMLHistoryIndex                     Integer32,
    tokenRingMLHistorySampleIndex               Integer32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryIntervalStart             TimeStamp,
    tokenRingMLHistoryDropEvents                Counter32,





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 24]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    tokenRingMLHistoryMacOctets                 Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryMacPkts                   Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryRingPurgeEvents           Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryRingPurgePkts             Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryBeaconEvents              Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryBeaconTime                TimeInterval,
    tokenRingMLHistoryBeaconPkts                Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryClaimTokenEvents          Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryClaimTokenPkts            Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryNAUNChanges               Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryLineErrors                Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryInternalErrors            Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryBurstErrors               Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryACErrors                  Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryAbortErrors               Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryLostFrameErrors           Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryCongestionErrors          Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryFrameCopiedErrors         Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryFrequencyErrors           Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryTokenErrors               Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistorySoftErrorReports          Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryRingPollEvents            Counter32,
    tokenRingMLHistoryActiveStations            Integer32
}

tokenRingMLHistoryIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The history of which this entry is a part.  The
            history identified by a particular value of this
            index is the same history as identified by the
            same value of historyControlIndex."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 1 }

tokenRingMLHistorySampleIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An index that uniquely identifies the particular
            Mac-Layer sample this entry represents among all
            Mac-Layer samples associated with the same
            historyControlEntry.  This index starts at 1 and





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 25]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            increases by one as each new sample is taken."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 2 }

tokenRingMLHistoryIntervalStart OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of sysUpTime at the start of the
            interval over which this sample was measured.  If
            the probe keeps track of the time of day, it
            should start the first sample of the history at a
            time such that when the next hour of the day
            begins, a sample is started at that instant.  Note
            that following this rule may require the probe to
            delay collecting the first sample of the history,
            as each sample must be of the same interval.  Also
            note that the sample which is currently being
            collected is not accessible in this table until
            the end of its interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 3 }

tokenRingMLHistoryDropEvents OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of events in which packets were
            dropped by the probe due to lack of resources
            during this sampling interval.  Note that this
            number is not necessarily the number of packets
            dropped, it is just the number of times this
            condition has been detected."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 4 }

tokenRingMLHistoryMacOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of octets of data in MAC packets
            (excluding those that were not good frames)
            received on the network during this sampling
            interval (excluding framing bits but including FCS
            octets)."





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 26]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 5 }

tokenRingMLHistoryMacPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of MAC packets (excluding those
            that were not good frames) received during this
            sampling interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 6 }

tokenRingMLHistoryRingPurgeEvents OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of times that the ring entered
            the ring purge state from normal ring state during
            this sampling interval.  The ring purge state that
            comes from the claim token or beacon state is not
            counted."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 7 }

tokenRingMLHistoryRingPurgePkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of Ring Purge MAC packets
            detected by the probe during this sampling
            interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 8 }

tokenRingMLHistoryBeaconEvents OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of times that the ring enters a
            beaconing state (beaconFrameStreamingState,
            beaconBitStreamingState,
            beaconSetRecoveryModeState, or
            beaconRingSignalLossState) during this sampling
            interval.  Note that a change of the source





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 27]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            address of the beacon packet does not constitute a
            new beacon event."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 9 }

tokenRingMLHistoryBeaconTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeInterval
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The amount of time that the ring has been in the
            beaconing state during this sampling interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 10 }

tokenRingMLHistoryBeaconPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of beacon MAC packets detected
            by the probe during this sampling interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 11 }

tokenRingMLHistoryClaimTokenEvents OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of times that the ring enters
            the claim token state from normal ring state or
            ring purge state during this sampling interval.
            The claim token state that comes from the beacon
            state is not counted."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 12 }

tokenRingMLHistoryClaimTokenPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of claim token MAC packets
            detected by the probe during this sampling
            interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 13 }

tokenRingMLHistoryNAUNChanges OBJECT-TYPE





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 28]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of NAUN changes detected by the
            probe during this sampling interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 14 }

tokenRingMLHistoryLineErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of line errors reported in error
            reporting packets detected by the probe during
            this sampling interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 15 }

tokenRingMLHistoryInternalErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of adapter internal errors
            reported in error reporting packets detected by
            the probe during this sampling interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 16 }

tokenRingMLHistoryBurstErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of burst errors reported in
            error reporting packets detected by the probe
            during this sampling interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 17 }

tokenRingMLHistoryACErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of AC (Address Copied) errors
            reported in error reporting packets detected by





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 29]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            the probe during this sampling interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 18 }

tokenRingMLHistoryAbortErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of abort delimiters reported in
            error reporting packets detected by the probe
            during this sampling interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 19 }

tokenRingMLHistoryLostFrameErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of lost frame errors reported in
            error reporting packets detected by the probe
            during this sampling interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 20 }

tokenRingMLHistoryCongestionErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of receive congestion errors
            reported in error reporting packets detected by
            the probe during this sampling interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 21 }

tokenRingMLHistoryFrameCopiedErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of frame copied errors reported
            in error reporting packets detected by the probe
            during this sampling interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 22 }

tokenRingMLHistoryFrequencyErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 30]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of frequency errors reported in
            error reporting packets detected by the probe
            during this sampling interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 23 }

tokenRingMLHistoryTokenErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of token errors reported in
            error reporting packets detected by the probe
            during this sampling interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 24 }

tokenRingMLHistorySoftErrorReports OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of soft error report frames
            detected by the probe during this sampling
            interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 25 }

tokenRingMLHistoryRingPollEvents OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of ring poll events detected by
            the probe during this sampling interval."
    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 26 }

tokenRingMLHistoryActiveStations OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The maximum number of active stations on the ring
            detected by the probe during this sampling
            interval."





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 31]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    ::= { tokenRingMLHistoryEntry 27}

















































Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 32]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


-- The Token Ring Promiscuous History Group
--
-- Implementation of this group is optional.
-- Implementation of this group requires the implementation of the
-- historyControl group from RFC2819.
-- Consult the MODULE-COMPLIANCE macro for the authoritative
-- conformance information for this MIB.

tokenRingPHistoryTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF TokenRingPHistoryEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A list of promiscuous Token Ring statistics
            entries."
    ::= { history 4 }

tokenRingPHistoryEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TokenRingPHistoryEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of promiscuous statistics kept for a
            particular Token Ring interface."
    INDEX { tokenRingPHistoryIndex, tokenRingPHistorySampleIndex }
    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryTable 1 }

-- As an example, an instance of the tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts object
-- might be named tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts.1.27

TokenRingPHistoryEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    tokenRingPHistoryIndex                          Integer32,
    tokenRingPHistorySampleIndex                    Integer32,
    tokenRingPHistoryIntervalStart                  TimeStamp,
    tokenRingPHistoryDropEvents                     Counter32,
    tokenRingPHistoryDataOctets                     Counter32,
    tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts                       Counter32,
    tokenRingPHistoryDataBroadcastPkts              Counter32,
    tokenRingPHistoryDataMulticastPkts              Counter32,
    tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts18to63Octets           Counter32,
    tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts64to127Octets          Counter32,
    tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts128to255Octets         Counter32,
    tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts256to511Octets         Counter32,
    tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts512to1023Octets        Counter32,
    tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts1024to2047Octets       Counter32,





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 33]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts2048to4095Octets       Counter32,
    tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts4096to8191Octets       Counter32,
    tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts8192to18000Octets      Counter32,
    tokenRingPHistoryDataPktsGreaterThan18000Octets Counter32
}

tokenRingPHistoryIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The history of which this entry is a part.  The
            history identified by a particular value of this
            index is the same history as identified by the
            same value of historyControlIndex."
    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryEntry 1 }

tokenRingPHistorySampleIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An index that uniquely identifies the particular
            sample this entry represents among all samples
            associated with the same historyControlEntry.
            This index starts at 1 and increases by one as
            each new sample is taken."
    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryEntry 2 }

tokenRingPHistoryIntervalStart OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of sysUpTime at the start of the
            interval over which this sample was measured.  If
            the probe keeps track of the time of day, it
            should start the first sample of the history at a
            time such that when the next hour of the day
            begins, a sample is started at that instant.  Note
            that following this rule may require the probe to
            delay collecting the first sample of the history,
            as each sample must be of the same interval.  Also
            note that the sample which is currently being
            collected is not accessible in this table until





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 34]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            the end of its interval."
    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryEntry 3 }

tokenRingPHistoryDropEvents OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of events in which packets were
            dropped by the probe due to lack of resources
            during this sampling interval.  Note that this
            number is not necessarily the number of packets
            dropped, it is just the number of times this
            condition has been detected."
    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryEntry 4 }

tokenRingPHistoryDataOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of octets of data in good frames
            received on the network (excluding framing bits
            but including FCS octets) in non-MAC packets
            during this sampling interval."
    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryEntry 5 }

tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            during this sampling interval."
    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryEntry 6 }

tokenRingPHistoryDataBroadcastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            during this sampling interval that were directed
            to an LLC broadcast address (0xFFFFFFFFFFFF or
            0xC000FFFFFFFF)."





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 35]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryEntry 7 }

tokenRingPHistoryDataMulticastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            during this sampling interval that were directed
            to a local or global multicast or functional
            address.  Note that this number does not include
            packets directed to the broadcast address."
    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryEntry 8 }

tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts18to63Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            during this sampling interval that were between 18
            and 63 octets in length inclusive, excluding
            framing bits but including FCS octets."
    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryEntry 9 }

tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts64to127Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            during this sampling interval that were between 64
            and 127 octets in length inclusive, excluding
            framing bits but including FCS octets."
    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryEntry 10 }

tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts128to255Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            during this sampling interval that were between
            128 and 255 octets in length inclusive, excluding
            framing bits but including FCS octets."





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 36]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryEntry 11 }

tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts256to511Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            during this sampling interval that were between
            256 and 511 octets in length inclusive, excluding
            framing bits but including FCS octets."
    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryEntry 12 }

tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts512to1023Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            during this sampling interval that were between
            512 and 1023 octets in length inclusive, excluding
            framing bits but including FCS octets."
    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryEntry 13 }

tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts1024to2047Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            during this sampling interval that were between
            1024 and 2047 octets in length inclusive,
            excluding framing bits but including FCS octets."
    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryEntry 14 }

tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts2048to4095Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            during this sampling interval that were between
            2048 and 4095 octets in length inclusive,
            excluding framing bits but including FCS octets."
    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryEntry 15 }





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 37]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts4096to8191Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            during this sampling interval that were between
            4096 and 8191 octets in length inclusive,
            excluding framing bits but including FCS octets."
    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryEntry 16 }

tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts8192to18000Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            during this sampling interval that were between
            8192 and 18000 octets in length inclusive,
            excluding framing bits but including FCS octets."
    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryEntry 17 }

tokenRingPHistoryDataPktsGreaterThan18000Octets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of non-MAC good frames received
            during this sampling interval that were greater
            than 18000 octets in length, excluding framing
            bits but including FCS octets."
    ::= { tokenRingPHistoryEntry 18 }


















Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 38]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


-- The Token Ring Ring Station Group
--
-- Implementation of this group is optional
-- Consult the MODULE-COMPLIANCE macro for the authoritative
-- conformance information for this MIB.
--
-- Although the ringStationTable stores entries only for those
-- stations physically attached to the local ring and the number of
-- stations attached to a ring is limited, a probe may still need to
-- free resources when resources grow tight.  In such a situation, it
-- is suggested that the probe free only inactive stations, and to
-- first free the stations that have been inactive for the longest
-- time.

ringStationControlTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF RingStationControlEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A list of ringStation table control entries."
    ::= { tokenRing 1 }

ringStationControlEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RingStationControlEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A list of parameters that set up the discovery of
            stations on a particular interface and the
            collection of statistics about these stations."
    INDEX { ringStationControlIfIndex }
    ::= { ringStationControlTable 1 }

-- As an example, an instance of the ringStationControlIfIndex object
-- might be named ringStationControlIfIndex.1

RingStationControlEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    ringStationControlIfIndex          InterfaceIndex,
    ringStationControlTableSize        Integer32,
    ringStationControlActiveStations   Integer32,
    ringStationControlRingState        INTEGER,
    ringStationControlBeaconSender     MacAddress,
    ringStationControlBeaconNAUN       MacAddress,
    ringStationControlActiveMonitor    MacAddress,
    ringStationControlOrderChanges     Counter32,





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 39]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    ringStationControlOwner            OwnerString,
    ringStationControlStatus           EntryStatus
}

ringStationControlIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of this object uniquely identifies the
            interface on this remote network monitoring device
            from which ringStation data is collected.  The
            interface identified by a particular value of this
            object is the same interface as identified by the
            same value of the ifIndex object, defined in IF-
            MIB [17]."
    ::= { ringStationControlEntry 1 }

ringStationControlTableSize OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of ringStationEntries in the
            ringStationTable associated with this
            ringStationControlEntry."
    ::= { ringStationControlEntry 2 }

ringStationControlActiveStations OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of active ringStationEntries in the
            ringStationTable associated with this
            ringStationControlEntry."
    ::= { ringStationControlEntry 3 }

ringStationControlRingState OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
        normalOperation(1),
        ringPurgeState(2),
        claimTokenState(3),
        beaconFrameStreamingState(4),
        beaconBitStreamingState(5),





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 40]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


        beaconRingSignalLossState(6),
        beaconSetRecoveryModeState(7)
    }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The current status of this ring."
    ::= { ringStationControlEntry 4 }

ringStationControlBeaconSender OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     MacAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The address of the sender of the last beacon
            frame received by the probe on this ring.  If no
            beacon frames have been received, this object
            shall be equal to six octets of zero."
    ::= { ringStationControlEntry 5 }

ringStationControlBeaconNAUN OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     MacAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The address of the NAUN in the last beacon frame
            received by the probe on this ring.  If no beacon
            frames have been received, this object shall be
            equal to six octets of zero."
    ::= { ringStationControlEntry 6 }

ringStationControlActiveMonitor OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     MacAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The address of the Active Monitor on this
            segment.  If this address is unknown, this object
            shall be equal to six octets of zero."
    ::= { ringStationControlEntry 7 }

ringStationControlOrderChanges OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 41]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of add and delete events in the
            ringStationOrderTable optionally associated with
            this ringStationControlEntry."
    ::= { ringStationControlEntry 8 }

ringStationControlOwner OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     OwnerString
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The entity that configured this entry and is
            therefore using the resources assigned to it."
    ::= { ringStationControlEntry 9 }

ringStationControlStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     EntryStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this ringStationControl entry.

            If this object is not equal to valid(1), all
            associated entries in the ringStationTable shall
            be deleted by the agent."
    ::= { ringStationControlEntry 10 }
























Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 42]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


ringStationTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF RingStationEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A list of ring station entries.  An entry will
            exist for each station that is now or has
            previously been detected as physically present on
            this ring."
     ::= { tokenRing 2 }

ringStationEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RingStationEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of statistics for a particular
            station that has been discovered on a ring
            monitored by this device."
    INDEX { ringStationIfIndex, ringStationMacAddress }
    ::= { ringStationTable 1 }

-- As an example, an instance of the ringStationStationStatus object
-- might be named ringStationStationStatus.1.16.0.90.0.64.131

RingStationEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    ringStationIfIndex                InterfaceIndex,
    ringStationMacAddress             MacAddress,
    ringStationLastNAUN               MacAddress,
    ringStationStationStatus          INTEGER,
    ringStationLastEnterTime          TimeStamp,
    ringStationLastExitTime           TimeStamp,
    ringStationDuplicateAddresses     Counter32,
    ringStationInLineErrors           Counter32,
    ringStationOutLineErrors          Counter32,
    ringStationInternalErrors         Counter32,
    ringStationInBurstErrors          Counter32,
    ringStationOutBurstErrors         Counter32,
    ringStationACErrors               Counter32,
    ringStationAbortErrors            Counter32,
    ringStationLostFrameErrors        Counter32,
    ringStationCongestionErrors       Counter32,
    ringStationFrameCopiedErrors      Counter32,
    ringStationFrequencyErrors        Counter32,
    ringStationTokenErrors            Counter32,





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 43]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    ringStationInBeaconErrors         Counter32,
    ringStationOutBeaconErrors        Counter32,
    ringStationInsertions             Counter32
}

ringStationIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of this object uniquely identifies the
            interface on this remote network monitoring device
            on which this station was detected.  The interface
            identified by a particular value of this object is
            the same interface as identified by the same value
            of the ifIndex object, defined in IF-MIB [17]."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 1 }

ringStationMacAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     MacAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The physical address of this station."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 2 }

ringStationLastNAUN OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     MacAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The physical address of last known NAUN of this
            station."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 3 }

ringStationStationStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
        active(1),          -- actively participating in ring poll.
        inactive(2),        -- Not participating in ring poll
        forcedRemoval(3)    -- Forced off ring by network management.
    }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this station on the ring. A value





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 44]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            of active(1) indicates the station is actively
            participating in ring poll. A value of inactive(2)
            indicates the station is not participating in ring
            poll and a value of forcedRemoval(3) indicates the
            station was forced off the ring by a network
            management operation."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 4 }

ringStationLastEnterTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of sysUpTime at the time this station
            last entered the ring.  If the time is unknown,
            this value shall be zero."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 5 }

ringStationLastExitTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of sysUpTime at the time the probe
            detected that this station last exited the ring.
            If the time is unknown, this value shall be zero."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 6 }

ringStationDuplicateAddresses OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of times this station experienced a
            duplicate address error."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 7 }

ringStationInLineErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of line errors reported by this
            station in error reporting packets detected by the
            probe."





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 45]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    ::= { ringStationEntry 8 }

ringStationOutLineErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of line errors reported in error
            reporting packets sent by the nearest active
            downstream neighbor of this station and detected
            by the probe."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 9 }

ringStationInternalErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of adapter internal errors
            reported by this station in error reporting
            packets detected by the probe."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 10 }

ringStationInBurstErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of burst errors reported by this
            station in error reporting packets detected by the
            probe."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 11 }

ringStationOutBurstErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of burst errors reported in
            error reporting packets sent by the nearest active
            downstream neighbor of this station and detected
            by the probe."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 12 }

ringStationACErrors OBJECT-TYPE





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 46]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of AC (Address Copied) errors
            reported in error reporting packets sent by the
            nearest active downstream neighbor of this station
            and detected by the probe."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 13 }

ringStationAbortErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of abort delimiters reported by
            this station in error reporting packets detected
            by the probe."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 14 }

ringStationLostFrameErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of lost frame errors reported by
            this station in error reporting packets detected
            by the probe."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 15 }

ringStationCongestionErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of receive congestion errors
            reported by this station in error reporting
            packets detected by the probe."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 16 }

ringStationFrameCopiedErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 47]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            "The total number of frame copied errors reported
            by this station in error reporting packets
            detected by the probe."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 17 }

ringStationFrequencyErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of frequency errors reported by
            this station in error reporting packets detected
            by the probe."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 18 }

ringStationTokenErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of token errors reported by this
            station in error reporting frames detected by the
            probe."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 19 }

ringStationInBeaconErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of beacon frames sent by this
            station and detected by the probe."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 20 }

ringStationOutBeaconErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of beacon frames detected by the
            probe that name this station as the NAUN."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 21 }

ringStationInsertions OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 48]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of times the probe detected this
            station inserting onto the ring."
    ::= { ringStationEntry 22 }












































Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 49]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


-- The Token Ring Ring Station Order Group
--
-- Implementation of this group is optional
-- Consult the MODULE-COMPLIANCE macro for the authoritative
-- conformance information for this MIB.
--

-- The ringStationOrderTable

ringStationOrderTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF RingStationOrderEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A list of ring station entries for stations in
            the ring poll, ordered by their ring-order."
    ::= { tokenRing 3 }

ringStationOrderEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RingStationOrderEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of statistics for a particular
            station that is active on a ring monitored by this
            device.  If implemented, this table will contain
            information for every interface that has a
            ringStationControlStatus equal to valid."
    INDEX { ringStationOrderIfIndex, ringStationOrderOrderIndex }
    ::= { ringStationOrderTable 1 }

-- As an example, an instance of the ringStationOrderMacAddress
-- object might be named ringStationOrderMacAddress.1.14

RingStationOrderEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    ringStationOrderIfIndex             InterfaceIndex,
    ringStationOrderOrderIndex          Integer32,
    ringStationOrderMacAddress          MacAddress
}

ringStationOrderIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 50]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            "The value of this object uniquely identifies the
            interface on this remote network monitoring device
            on which this station was detected.  The interface
            identified by a particular value of this object is
            the same interface as identified by the same value
            of the ifIndex object, defined in IF-MIB [17]."
    ::= { ringStationOrderEntry 1 }

ringStationOrderOrderIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This index denotes the location of this station
            with respect to other stations on the ring.  This
            index is one more than the number of hops
            downstream that this station is from the rmon
            probe.  The rmon probe itself gets the value one."
    ::= { ringStationOrderEntry 2 }

ringStationOrderMacAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     MacAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The physical address of this station."
    ::= { ringStationOrderEntry 3 }























Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 51]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


-- The Token Ring Ring Station Config Group
--
-- Implementation of this group is optional.
-- Consult the MODULE-COMPLIANCE macro for the authoritative
-- conformance information for this MIB.
--
-- The ring station config group manages token ring nodes through
-- active means.

ringStationConfigControlTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF RingStationConfigControlEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A list of ring station configuration control
            entries."
    ::= { tokenRing 4 }

ringStationConfigControlEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RingStationConfigControlEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This entry controls active management of stations
            by the probe.  One entry exists in this table for
            each active station in the ringStationTable."
    INDEX { ringStationConfigControlIfIndex,
            ringStationConfigControlMacAddress }
    ::= { ringStationConfigControlTable 1 }

-- As an example, an instance of the ringStationConfigControlRemove
-- object might be named
-- ringStationConfigControlRemove.1.16.0.90.0.64.131

RingStationConfigControlEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    ringStationConfigControlIfIndex         InterfaceIndex,
    ringStationConfigControlMacAddress      MacAddress,
    ringStationConfigControlRemove          INTEGER,
    ringStationConfigControlUpdateStats     INTEGER
}

ringStationConfigControlIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 52]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of this object uniquely identifies the
            interface on this remote network monitoring device
            on which this station was detected.  The interface
            identified by a particular value of this object is
            the same interface as identified by the same value
            of the ifIndex object, defined in IF-MIB [17]."
    ::= { ringStationConfigControlEntry 1 }

ringStationConfigControlMacAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     MacAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The physical address of this station."
    ::= { ringStationConfigControlEntry 2 }

ringStationConfigControlRemove OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
        stable(1),
        removing(2)
    }
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Setting this object to `removing(2)' causes a
            Remove Station MAC frame to be sent.  The agent
            will set this object to `stable(1)' after
            processing the request."
    ::= { ringStationConfigControlEntry 3 }

ringStationConfigControlUpdateStats OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
        stable(1),
        updating(2)
    }
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Setting this object to `updating(2)' causes the
            configuration information associate with this
            entry to be updated.  The agent will set this
            object to `stable(1)' after processing the
            request."
    ::= { ringStationConfigControlEntry 4 }





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 53]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


--  The ringStationConfig Table
--
--  Entries exist in this table after an active
--  configuration query has completed successfully for
--  a station.  This query is initiated by the associated
--  ringStationConfigControlUpdateStats variable.


ringStationConfigTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF RingStationConfigEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A list of configuration entries for stations on a
            ring monitored by this probe."
    ::= { tokenRing 5 }

ringStationConfigEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RingStationConfigEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of statistics for a particular
            station that has been discovered on a ring
            monitored by this probe."
    INDEX { ringStationConfigIfIndex, ringStationConfigMacAddress }
    ::= { ringStationConfigTable 1 }

-- As an example, an instance of the ringStationConfigLocation object
-- might be named ringStationConfigLocation.1.16.0.90.0.64.131

RingStationConfigEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    ringStationConfigIfIndex            InterfaceIndex,
    ringStationConfigMacAddress         MacAddress,
    ringStationConfigUpdateTime         TimeStamp,
    ringStationConfigLocation           OCTET STRING,
    ringStationConfigMicrocode          OCTET STRING,
    ringStationConfigGroupAddress       OCTET STRING,
    ringStationConfigFunctionalAddress  OCTET STRING
}

ringStationConfigIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 54]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of this object uniquely identifies the
            interface on this remote network monitoring device
            on which this station was detected.  The interface
            identified by a particular value of this object is
            the same interface as identified by the same value
            of the ifIndex object, defined in IF-MIB [17]."
    ::= { ringStationConfigEntry 1 }

ringStationConfigMacAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     MacAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The physical address of this station."
    ::= { ringStationConfigEntry 2 }

ringStationConfigUpdateTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of sysUpTime at the time this
            configuration information was last updated
            (completely)."
    ::= { ringStationConfigEntry 3 }

ringStationConfigLocation OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The assigned physical location of this station."
    ::= { ringStationConfigEntry 4 }

ringStationConfigMicrocode OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     OCTET STRING (SIZE(10))
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The microcode EC level of this station."
    ::= { ringStationConfigEntry 5 }

ringStationConfigGroupAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 55]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The low-order 4 octets of the group address
            recognized by this station."
    ::= { ringStationConfigEntry 6 }

ringStationConfigFunctionalAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     OCTET STRING (SIZE(4))
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "the functional addresses recognized by this
            station."
    ::= { ringStationConfigEntry 7 }



































Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 56]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


-- The Token Ring Source Routing group
--
-- Implementation of this group is optional.
-- Consult the MODULE-COMPLIANCE macro for the authoritative
-- conformance information for this MIB.
--
-- The data in this group is collected from the source routing
-- information potentially present in any token ring packet.
-- This information will be valid only in a pure source route
-- bridging environment.  In a transparent bridging or a mixed
-- bridging environment, this information may not be accurate.

sourceRoutingStatsTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF SourceRoutingStatsEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A list of source routing statistics entries."
    ::= { tokenRing 6 }

sourceRoutingStatsEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SourceRoutingStatsEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of source routing statistics kept
            for a particular Token Ring interface."
    INDEX { sourceRoutingStatsIfIndex }
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsTable 1 }

-- As an example, an instance of the sourceRoutingStatsInFrames
-- object might be named sourceRoutingStatsInFrames.1

SourceRoutingStatsEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    sourceRoutingStatsIfIndex                      InterfaceIndex,
    sourceRoutingStatsRingNumber                   Integer32,
    sourceRoutingStatsInFrames                     Counter32,
        -- in to our net

    sourceRoutingStatsOutFrames                    Counter32,
        -- out from our net

    sourceRoutingStatsThroughFrames                Counter32,
        -- through our net






Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 57]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


    sourceRoutingStatsAllRoutesBroadcastFrames     Counter32,
    sourceRoutingStatsSingleRouteBroadcastFrames   Counter32,
    sourceRoutingStatsInOctets                     Counter32,
    sourceRoutingStatsOutOctets                    Counter32,
    sourceRoutingStatsThroughOctets                Counter32,
    sourceRoutingStatsAllRoutesBroadcastOctets     Counter32,
    sourceRoutingStatsSingleRoutesBroadcastOctets  Counter32,
    sourceRoutingStatsLocalLLCFrames               Counter32,
    sourceRoutingStats1HopFrames                   Counter32,
    sourceRoutingStats2HopsFrames                  Counter32,
    sourceRoutingStats3HopsFrames                  Counter32,
    sourceRoutingStats4HopsFrames                  Counter32,
    sourceRoutingStats5HopsFrames                  Counter32,
    sourceRoutingStats6HopsFrames                  Counter32,
    sourceRoutingStats7HopsFrames                  Counter32,
    sourceRoutingStats8HopsFrames                  Counter32,
    sourceRoutingStatsMoreThan8HopsFrames          Counter32,
    sourceRoutingStatsOwner                        OwnerString,
    sourceRoutingStatsStatus                       EntryStatus
}

sourceRoutingStatsIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of this object uniquely identifies the
            interface on this remote network monitoring device
            on which source routing statistics will be
            detected.  The interface identified by a
            particular value of this object is the same
            interface as identified by the same value of the
            ifIndex object, defined in IF-MIB [17]."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 1 }

sourceRoutingStatsRingNumber OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The ring number of the ring monitored by this
            entry.  When any object in this entry is created,
            the probe will attempt to discover the ring
            number.  Only after the ring number is discovered
            will this object be created.  After creating an





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 58]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            object in this entry, the management station
            should poll this object to detect when it is
            created.  Only after this object is created can
            the management station set the
            sourceRoutingStatsStatus entry to valid(1)."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 2 }

sourceRoutingStatsInFrames OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The count of frames sent into this ring from
            another ring that were not All Routes Broadcasts
            or Single Route Broadcast."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 3 }

sourceRoutingStatsOutFrames OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The count of frames sent from this ring to
            another ring that were not All Routes Broadcasts
            or Single Route Broadcast."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 4 }

sourceRoutingStatsThroughFrames OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The count of frames sent from another ring,
            through this ring, to another ring that were not
            All Routes Broadcasts or Single Route Broadcast."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 5 }

sourceRoutingStatsAllRoutesBroadcastFrames OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of good frames received that
            were All Routes Broadcast."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 6 }





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 59]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


sourceRoutingStatsSingleRouteBroadcastFrames OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of good frames received that
            were Single Route Broadcast."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 7 }

sourceRoutingStatsInOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The count of octets in good frames sent into this
            ring from another ring that were not All Routes
            Broadcasts or Single Route Broadcast."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 8 }

sourceRoutingStatsOutOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The count of octets in good frames sent from this
            ring to another ring that were not All Routes
            Broadcasts or Single Route Broadcast."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 9 }

sourceRoutingStatsThroughOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The count of octets in good frames sent another
            ring, through this ring, to another ring that were
            not All Routes Broadcasts or Single Route
            Broadcast."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 10 }

sourceRoutingStatsAllRoutesBroadcastOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 60]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            "The total number of octets in good frames
            received that were All Routes Broadcast."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 11 }

sourceRoutingStatsSingleRoutesBroadcastOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of octets in good frames
            received that were Single Route Broadcast."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 12 }

sourceRoutingStatsLocalLLCFrames OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of frames received which had no
            RIF field (or had a RIF field that only included
            the local ring's number) and were not All Route
            Broadcast Frames or Single Route Broadcast
            Frames."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 13 }

sourceRoutingStats1HopFrames OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of frames received whose route
            had 1 hop, were not All Route Broadcast Frames or
            Single Route Broadcast Frames, and whose source or
            destination were on this ring (i.e. frames that
            had a RIF field and had this ring number in the
            first or last entry of the RIF field)."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 14 }

sourceRoutingStats2HopsFrames OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of frames received whose route
            had 2 hops, were not All Route Broadcast Frames or





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 61]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            Single Route Broadcast Frames, and whose source or
            destination were on this ring (i.e. frames that
            had a RIF field and had this ring number in the
            first or last entry of the RIF field)."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 15 }

sourceRoutingStats3HopsFrames OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of frames received whose route
            had 3 hops, were not All Route Broadcast Frames or
            Single Route Broadcast Frames, and whose source or
            destination were on this ring (i.e. frames that
            had a RIF field and had this ring number in the
            first or last entry of the RIF field)."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 16 }

sourceRoutingStats4HopsFrames OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of frames received whose route
            had 4 hops, were not All Route Broadcast Frames or
            Single Route Broadcast Frames, and whose source or
            destination were on this ring (i.e. frames that
            had a RIF field and had this ring number in the
            first or last entry of the RIF field)."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 17 }

sourceRoutingStats5HopsFrames OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of frames received whose route
            had 5 hops, were not All Route Broadcast Frames or
            Single Route Broadcast Frames, and whose source or
            destination were on this ring (i.e. frames that
            had a RIF field and had this ring number in the
            first or last entry of the RIF field)."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 18 }






Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 62]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


sourceRoutingStats6HopsFrames OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of frames received whose route
            had 6 hops, were not All Route Broadcast Frames or
            Single Route Broadcast Frames, and whose source or
            destination were on this ring (i.e. frames that
            had a RIF field and had this ring number in the
            first or last entry of the RIF field)."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 19 }

sourceRoutingStats7HopsFrames OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of frames received whose route
            had 7 hops, were not All Route Broadcast Frames or
            Single Route Broadcast Frames, and whose source or
            destination were on this ring (i.e. frames that
            had a RIF field and had this ring number in the
            first or last entry of the RIF field)."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 20 }

sourceRoutingStats8HopsFrames OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of frames received whose route
            had 8 hops, were not All Route Broadcast Frames or
            Single Route Broadcast Frames, and whose source or
            destination were on this ring (i.e. frames that
            had a RIF field and had this ring number in the
            first or last entry of the RIF field)."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 21 }

sourceRoutingStatsMoreThan8HopsFrames OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The total number of frames received whose route





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 63]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            had more than 8 hops, were not All Route Broadcast
            Frames or Single Route Broadcast Frames, and whose
            source or destination were on this ring (i.e.
            frames that had a RIF field and had this ring
            number in the first or last entry of the RIF
            field)."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 22 }

sourceRoutingStatsOwner OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     OwnerString
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The entity that configured this entry and is
            therefore using the resources assigned to it."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 23 }

sourceRoutingStatsStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     EntryStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this sourceRoutingStats entry."
    ::= { sourceRoutingStatsEntry 24 }

-- Compliance Statements
tokenRingRMONCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "At least one of the groups in this module must be
        implemented to conform to the Token Ring RMON MIB.
        Implementations of this MIB must also implement the
        system group of MIB-II [16] and the IF-MIB [17]."
    MODULE -- this module

      GROUP tokenRingMLStatsGroup
          DESCRIPTION
              "The Token Ring Mac-Layer Statistics Group is optional."

      GROUP tokenRingPStatsGroup
          DESCRIPTION
              "The Token Ring Promiscuous Statistics Group is optional."

      GROUP tokenRingMLHistoryGroup
          DESCRIPTION





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 64]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


              "The Token Ring Mac-Layer History Group is optional.
              Implementation of this group requires implementation of
              the historyControl group from RFC2819."

      GROUP tokenRingPHistoryGroup
          DESCRIPTION
              "The Token Ring Promiscuous History Group is optional.
              Implementation of this group requires implementation of
              the historyControl group from RFC2819."

      GROUP ringStationGroup
          DESCRIPTION
              "The Token Ring Ring Station Group is optional."

      GROUP ringStationOrderGroup
          DESCRIPTION
              "The Token Ring Ring Station Order Group is optional."

      GROUP ringStationConfigGroup
          DESCRIPTION
              "The Token Ring Ring Station Config Group is optional."

      GROUP sourceRoutingStatsGroup
          DESCRIPTION
              "The Token Ring Source Routing Group is optional."

    ::= { rmonCompliances 2 }

    tokenRingMLStatsGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
            tokenRingMLStatsIndex, tokenRingMLStatsDataSource,
            tokenRingMLStatsDropEvents, tokenRingMLStatsMacOctets,
            tokenRingMLStatsMacPkts, tokenRingMLStatsRingPurgeEvents,
            tokenRingMLStatsRingPurgePkts,
            tokenRingMLStatsBeaconEvents, tokenRingMLStatsBeaconTime,
            tokenRingMLStatsBeaconPkts,
            tokenRingMLStatsClaimTokenEvents,
            tokenRingMLStatsClaimTokenPkts,
            tokenRingMLStatsNAUNChanges, tokenRingMLStatsLineErrors,
            tokenRingMLStatsInternalErrors,
            tokenRingMLStatsBurstErrors, tokenRingMLStatsACErrors,
            tokenRingMLStatsAbortErrors,
            tokenRingMLStatsLostFrameErrors,
            tokenRingMLStatsCongestionErrors,
            tokenRingMLStatsFrameCopiedErrors,





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 65]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            tokenRingMLStatsFrequencyErrors,
            tokenRingMLStatsTokenErrors,
            tokenRingMLStatsSoftErrorReports,
            tokenRingMLStatsRingPollEvents,
            tokenRingMLStatsOwner, tokenRingMLStatsStatus
        }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The Token Ring Mac-Layer Statistics Group."
        ::= { rmonGroups 12 }

    tokenRingPStatsGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
            tokenRingPStatsIndex, tokenRingPStatsDataSource,
            tokenRingPStatsDropEvents, tokenRingPStatsDataOctets,
            tokenRingPStatsDataPkts, tokenRingPStatsDataBroadcastPkts,
            tokenRingPStatsDataMulticastPkts,
            tokenRingPStatsDataPkts18to63Octets,
            tokenRingPStatsDataPkts64to127Octets,
            tokenRingPStatsDataPkts128to255Octets,
            tokenRingPStatsDataPkts256to511Octets,
            tokenRingPStatsDataPkts512to1023Octets,
            tokenRingPStatsDataPkts1024to2047Octets,
            tokenRingPStatsDataPkts2048to4095Octets,
            tokenRingPStatsDataPkts4096to8191Octets,
            tokenRingPStatsDataPkts8192to18000Octets,
            tokenRingPStatsDataPktsGreaterThan18000Octets,
            tokenRingPStatsOwner, tokenRingPStatsStatus
        }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The Token Ring Promiscuous Statistics Group."
        ::= { rmonGroups 13 }

    tokenRingMLHistoryGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
            tokenRingMLHistoryIndex, tokenRingMLHistorySampleIndex,
            tokenRingMLHistoryIntervalStart,
            tokenRingMLHistoryDropEvents,
            tokenRingMLHistoryMacOctets,
            tokenRingMLHistoryMacPkts,
            tokenRingMLHistoryRingPurgeEvents,
            tokenRingMLHistoryRingPurgePkts,
            tokenRingMLHistoryBeaconEvents,
            tokenRingMLHistoryBeaconTime,





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 66]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            tokenRingMLHistoryBeaconPkts,
            tokenRingMLHistoryClaimTokenEvents,
            tokenRingMLHistoryClaimTokenPkts,
            tokenRingMLHistoryNAUNChanges,
            tokenRingMLHistoryLineErrors,
            tokenRingMLHistoryInternalErrors,
            tokenRingMLHistoryBurstErrors,
            tokenRingMLHistoryACErrors,
            tokenRingMLHistoryAbortErrors,
            tokenRingMLHistoryLostFrameErrors,
            tokenRingMLHistoryCongestionErrors,
            tokenRingMLHistoryFrameCopiedErrors,
            tokenRingMLHistoryFrequencyErrors,
            tokenRingMLHistoryTokenErrors,
            tokenRingMLHistorySoftErrorReports,
            tokenRingMLHistoryRingPollEvents,
            tokenRingMLHistoryActiveStations
        }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The Token Ring Mac-Layer History Group."
        ::= { rmonGroups 14 }

    tokenRingPHistoryGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
            tokenRingPHistoryIndex, tokenRingPHistorySampleIndex,
            tokenRingPHistoryIntervalStart,
            tokenRingPHistoryDropEvents,
            tokenRingPHistoryDataOctets,
            tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts,
            tokenRingPHistoryDataBroadcastPkts,
            tokenRingPHistoryDataMulticastPkts,
            tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts18to63Octets,
            tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts64to127Octets,
            tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts128to255Octets,
            tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts256to511Octets,
            tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts512to1023Octets,
            tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts1024to2047Octets,
            tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts2048to4095Octets,
            tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts4096to8191Octets,
            tokenRingPHistoryDataPkts8192to18000Octets,
            tokenRingPHistoryDataPktsGreaterThan18000Octets
        }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 67]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            "The Token Ring Promiscuous History Group."
        ::= { rmonGroups 15 }

    ringStationGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
            ringStationControlIfIndex,
            ringStationControlTableSize,
            ringStationControlActiveStations,
            ringStationControlRingState,
            ringStationControlBeaconSender,
            ringStationControlBeaconNAUN,
            ringStationControlActiveMonitor,
            ringStationControlOrderChanges,
            ringStationControlOwner, ringStationControlStatus,
            ringStationIfIndex, ringStationMacAddress,
            ringStationLastNAUN, ringStationStationStatus,
            ringStationLastEnterTime, ringStationLastExitTime,
            ringStationDuplicateAddresses, ringStationInLineErrors,
            ringStationOutLineErrors, ringStationInternalErrors,
            ringStationInBurstErrors, ringStationOutBurstErrors,
            ringStationACErrors, ringStationAbortErrors,
            ringStationLostFrameErrors, ringStationCongestionErrors,
            ringStationFrameCopiedErrors, ringStationFrequencyErrors,
            ringStationTokenErrors, ringStationInBeaconErrors,
            ringStationOutBeaconErrors, ringStationInsertions
        }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The Token Ring Ring Station Group."
        ::= { rmonGroups 16 }

    ringStationOrderGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
            ringStationOrderIfIndex, ringStationOrderOrderIndex,
            ringStationOrderMacAddress
        }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The Token Ring Ring Station Order Group."
        ::= { rmonGroups 17 }

    ringStationConfigGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
            ringStationConfigControlIfIndex,
            ringStationConfigControlMacAddress,





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 68]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


            ringStationConfigControlRemove,
            ringStationConfigControlUpdateStats,
            ringStationConfigIfIndex, ringStationConfigMacAddress,
            ringStationConfigUpdateTime, ringStationConfigLocation,
            ringStationConfigMicrocode, ringStationConfigGroupAddress,
            ringStationConfigFunctionalAddress
        }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The Token Ring Ring Station Config Group."
        ::= { rmonGroups 18 }

    sourceRoutingStatsGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
            sourceRoutingStatsIfIndex, sourceRoutingStatsRingNumber,
            sourceRoutingStatsInFrames, sourceRoutingStatsOutFrames,
            sourceRoutingStatsThroughFrames,
            sourceRoutingStatsAllRoutesBroadcastFrames,
            sourceRoutingStatsSingleRouteBroadcastFrames,
            sourceRoutingStatsInOctets,
            sourceRoutingStatsOutOctets,
            sourceRoutingStatsThroughOctets,
            sourceRoutingStatsAllRoutesBroadcastOctets,
            sourceRoutingStatsSingleRoutesBroadcastOctets,
            sourceRoutingStatsLocalLLCFrames,
            sourceRoutingStats1HopFrames,
            sourceRoutingStats2HopsFrames,
            sourceRoutingStats3HopsFrames,
            sourceRoutingStats4HopsFrames,
            sourceRoutingStats5HopsFrames,
            sourceRoutingStats6HopsFrames,
            sourceRoutingStats7HopsFrames,
            sourceRoutingStats8HopsFrames,
            sourceRoutingStatsMoreThan8HopsFrames,
            sourceRoutingStatsOwner, sourceRoutingStatsStatus
        }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The Token Ring Source Routing Group."
        ::= { rmonGroups 19 }

END








Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 69]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


6.  Security Considerations

In order to implement this MIB, a probe must capture all
packets on the locally-attached network, including packets
between third parties.  These packets are analyzed to collect
network addresses, protocol usage information, and
conversation statistics. Data of this nature may be considered
sensitive in some environments. In such environments the
administrator may wish to restrict SNMP access to the probe.

This MIB also includes the ability to remove a station from a
ring. Unauthorized use of this feature could constitute a
denial of service attack. The administrator may wish to
restrict access to the MIB object
(ringStationConfigControlRemove) that implements this ability.

There are a number of management objects defined in this MIB
that have a MAX-ACCESS clause of read-write and/or read-
create.  Such objects may be considered sensitive or
vulnerable in some network environments.  The support for SET
operations in a non-secure environment without proper
protection can have a negative effect on network operations.

SNMPv1 by itself is not a secure environment.  Even if the
network itself is secure (for example by using IPSec), even
then, there is no control as to who on the secure network is
allowed to access and GET/SET (read/change/create/delete) the
objects in this MIB.

It is recommended that the implementors consider the security
features as provided by the SNMPv3 framework.  Specifically,
the use of the User-based Security Model RFC 2574 [12] and the
View-based Access Control Model RFC 2575 [15] is recommended.

It is then a customer/user responsibility to ensure that the
SNMP entity giving access to an instance of this MIB, is
properly configured to give access to the objects only to
those principals (users) that have legitimate rights to indeed
GET or SET (change/create/delete) them.











Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 70]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


7.  References

[1]  Harrington, D., Presuhn, R., and B. Wijnen, "An
     Architecture for Describing SNMP Management Frameworks",
     RFC 2571, April 1999.

[2]  Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Structure and
     Identification of Management Information for TCP/IP-based
     Internets", STD 16, RFC 1155, May 1990.

[3]  Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Concise MIB Definitions",
     STD 16, RFC 1212, March 1991.

[4]  Rose, M., "A Convention for Defining Traps for use with
     the SNMP", RFC 1215, March 1991.

[5]  McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J.,
     Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Structure of Management
     Information Version 2 (SMIv2)", STD 58, RFC 2578, April
     1999.

[6]  McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J.,
     Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Textual Conventions for
     SMIv2", STD 58, RFC 2579, April 1999.

[7]  McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J.,
     Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Conformance Statements for
     SMIv2", STD 58, RFC 2580, April 1999.

[8]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin,
     "Simple Network Management Protocol", STD 15, RFC 1157,
     May 1990.

[9]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser,
     "Introduction to Community-based SNMPv2", RFC 1901,
     January 1996.

[10] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser,
     "Transport Mappings for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1906, January 1996.

[11] Case, J., Harrington D., Presuhn R., and B. Wijnen,
     "Message Processing and Dispatching for the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMP)", RFC 2572, April
     1999.





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 71]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


[12] Blumenthal, U., and B. Wijnen, "User-based Security Model
     (USM) for version 3 of the Simple Network Management
     Protocol (SNMPv3)", RFC 2574, April 1999.

[13] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser,
     "Protocol Operations for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

[14] Levi, D., Meyer, P., and B. Stewart, "SNMPv3
     Applications", RFC 2573, April 1999.

[15] Wijnen, B., Presuhn, R., and K. McCloghrie, "View-based
     Access Control Model (VACM) for the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMP)", RFC 2575, April 1999.

[16] McCloghrie, K. and M. Rose, Editors, "Management
     Information Base for Network Management of TCP/IP-based
     internets: MIB-II", STD 17, RFC 1213, Hughes LAN Systems,
     Performance Systems International, March 1991.

[17] McCloghrie, K. and F. Kastenholz, "The Interfaces Group
     MIB", RFC 2863, Cisco Systems, Argon Networks, June 2000.

[18] Case, J., Mundy, R., Partain, D., and B. Stewart,
     "Introduction to Version 3 of the Internet-standard
     Network Management Framework", RFC 2570, April 1999.

[19] Waldbusser, S., "Remote Network Monitoring MIB", STD 59,
     RFC 2819, May 2000.

[20] Token Ring Access Method and Physical Layer
     Specifications, Institute of Electrical and Electronic
     Engineers, IEEE Standard 802.5-1989, 1989.

















Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 72]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


8.  Acknowledgements

   This document was produced by the Token Ring RMON MIB working group.

   In addition, the author gratefully acknowledges the comments of the
   following individuals:

         Andrew Bierman
         Steve Bostock
         Gary Ellis
         Mike Erlinger
         Robert Graham
         Stephen Grau
         Carl Hayssen
         Jeff Hughes
         Robin Iddon
         Ken Kutzler
         To-Choi Lau
         Carl Madison
         Keith McCloghrie
         Rohit Mital
         Keith Schomburg
         Marshall Rose
         Mark Therieau
         Mark van der Pol
         Brian Wyld

9.  Author's Address

   Steven Waldbusser
   Email: waldbusser@nextbeacon.com
   Phone: +1 650-948-6500
   Fax:   +1 650-745-0671

















Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 73]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


10.  Intellectual Property

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of
any intellectual property or other rights that might be
claimed to  pertain to the implementation or use of the
technology described in this document or the extent to which
any license under such rights might or might not be available;
neither does it represent that it has made any effort to
identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's
procedures with respect to rights in standards-track and
standards-related documentation can be found in BCP-11.
Copies of claims of rights made available for publication and
any assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result
of an attempt made to obtain a general license or permission
for the use of such proprietary rights by implementors or
users of this specification can be obtained from the IETF
Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its
attention any copyrights, patents or patent applications, or
other proprietary rights which may cover technology that may
be required to practice this standard.  Please address the
information to the IETF Executive Director.


11.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001). All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and
furnished to others, and derivative works that comment on or
otherwise explain it or assist in its implementation may be
prepared, copied, published and distributed, in whole or in
part, without restriction of any kind, provided that the above
copyright notice and this paragraph are included on all such
copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the
copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or
other Internet organizations, except as needed for the
purpose of developing Internet standards in which case the
procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet Standards
process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will





Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 74]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


not be revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or
assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided
on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET
ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE
USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.








































Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 75]





Internet Draft Token Ring Extensions to RMON MIB March 2, 2001


Table of Contents


1 The SNMP Management Framework .........................    2
2 Guidelines for implementing RFC2819 objects on a To-
     ken Ring network ...................................    4
2.1 Host Group ..........................................    4
2.2 Matrix Group ........................................    4
2.3 Filter Group ........................................    4
2.4 Other comments ......................................    5
3 Overview of the RMON Token Ring Extensions MIB ........    6
3.1 The Token Ring Statistics Groups ....................    6
3.2 The Token Ring History Groups .......................    6
3.3 The Token Ring Ring Station Group ...................    7
3.4 The Token Ring Ring Station Order Group .............    7
3.5 The Token Ring Ring Station Config Group ............    7
3.6 The Token Ring Source Routing Group .................    7
4 Terminology ...........................................    7
5 Definitions ...........................................    8
5.1 The Token Ring Mac-Layer Statistics Group ...........   10
5.2 The Token Ring Promiscuous Statistics Group .........   18
5.3 The Token Ring Mac-Layer History Group ..............   24
5.4 The Token Ring Promiscuous History Group ............   33
5.5 The Token Ring Ring Station Group ...................   39
5.6 The Token Ring Ring Station Order Group .............   50
5.7 The Token Ring Ring Station Config Group ............   52
5.8 The Token Ring Source Routing Group .................   57
6 Security Considerations ...............................   70
7 References ............................................   71
8 Acknowledgements ......................................   73
9 Author's Address ......................................   73
10 Intellectual Property ................................   74
11 Full Copyright Statement .............................   74

















Waldbusser         Expires September 2, 2001         [Page 76]

