
IPv6 MIB Revision Design Team      Shawn A. Routhier, Editor
INTERNET-DRAFT                                    Wind River
Expires: August 2003                           February 2003


                      Management Information Base
                     for the Internet Protocol (IP)
                 draft-ietf-ipv6-rfc2011-update-02.txt

Status of this Document

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.


This document is a product of the IPv6 MIB Revision Design Team.
Comments should be addressed to the authors, or the mailing list at
ipng@sunroof.eng.sun.com.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2003). All Rights Reserved.

                                Abstract

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it describes managed objects used for implementations of the
Internet Protocol (IP) in an IP version independent manner.  This memo
obsoletes RFCs 2011, 2465 and 2466.






Routhier, Editor                                                [Page 1]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


                           Table of Contents


1. The Internet-Standard Management Framework. . . . . . . . . . . .   2
2. Revision History. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
3. Overview. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
 3.1. Multi-Stack Implementations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
 3.2. Discussion of Tables and Groups. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
  3.2.1. General Objects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
  3.2.2. Interface Tables. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
  3.2.3. IP Statistics Tables. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
  3.2.4. Internet Address Prefix Table . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
  3.2.5. Internet Address Table. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
  3.2.6. Internet Address Translation Table. . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
  3.2.7. IPv6 Scope Zone Index . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
  3.2.8. Default Router Table. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  13
  3.2.9. Router Advertisement Table. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
  3.2.10. ICMP Statistics Tables . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
  3.2.11. Conformance and Compliance . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  14
  3.2.12. Deprecated Objects . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
4. Updating Implementations. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
 4.1. Updating an implementation of the IPv4-only
 IP-MIB. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  15
 4.2. Updating an implementation of the IPv6-MIB . . . . . . . . . .  16
5. Definitions . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  17
6. Open Issues / To Do . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
7. Acknowledgments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
8. References. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
 8.1. Normative. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 105
 8.2. Informative. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 106
9. Security Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 107
10. Editor's Contact Information . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
11. Authors. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
12. Acknowledgments. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 109
13. Full Copyright Statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 110

1.  The Internet-Standard Management Framework

For a detailed overview of the documents that describe the current
Internet-Standard Management Framework, please refer to section 7 of RFC
3410 [8].

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  MIB objects are generally accessed
through the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP).  Objects in the
MIB are defined using the mechanisms defined in the Structure of
Management Information (SMI).  This memo specifies a MIB module that is
compliant to the SMIv2, which is described in STD 58, RFC 2578 [1], STD



Routhier, Editor                                    Section 1.  [Page 2]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


58, RFC 2579 [2] and STD 58, RFC 2580 [3].

2.  Revision History

One of the primary purposes of this revision of the IP MIB is to create
a single set of objects to describe and manage IP modules in an IP
version independent manner.  Where RFCs 2465 and 2466 created a set of
objects independent from RFC2011 this document merges those three
documents into a single unified set of objects.  The ipSystemStatsTable
and ipIfStatsTable tables are examples of updating objects to be
independent of IP version.  Both of these tables contain counters to
reflect IP traffic statistics that originated in much earlier MIBs and
both include an IP address type in order to separate the information
based on IP version.

Another purpose of this document is to increase the managability of a
node running IPv6 by adding new objects.  Some of these tables, such as
ipDefaultRouterTable, may be useful on both IPv4 and IPv6 nodes while
others, such as ipv6RouterAdvertTable, are specific to a single
protocol.


The rest of this section will be removed when the draft is submitted for
approval as a RFC.

Changes from draft-ietf-ipv6-rfc2011-update-01.txt

February 2003

     Added ipLastChangeGroup which makes the lastChange objects a SHOULD
     for agents that have the proper values available.

     Added normative references for IMPORTed mibs.

January 2003

     Editorial cleanup.

     Renamed the ipv4If entries to ipv4Interface in order to be similar
     to the ipv6Interface entries.

     Updated the SNMP boilerplate.

     Updated the references to remove many SNMP specific entries and
     split the remainder into normative and informative.

     Updated the security considerations section.




Routhier, Editor                                    Section 2.  [Page 3]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


     Decided not to add the netmask or BcastAddr information from the
     deprecated ipAddrTable into the new mib as there was no major
     support for them.

     Removed IPv6 conformance and compliance OIDs as they are no longer
     in use.

     Renamed ipv6Forwarding and ipv6DefaultHopLimit to ip6Forwarding and
     ip6DefaultHopLimit and moved them from the IPv6 branch to the IP
     branch, thus removing the last objects in the IPv6 branch.

     Added ipv6RouterAdvertSpinLock and ipv6RouterAdvertRowStatus

     Added ipv4IfTableLastChange, ipv6IfTableLastChange and
     ipIfStatsTableLastChange.

     Renumbered pretty much everything at the IP branch level in order
     to rationalize things and fit in the new objects.

Changes from draft-ops-rfc2011-update-02.txt:

October 2002

     Renumbered objects in groups that had objects removed from one
     draft to another.  As per SMI rules no objects that have been
     published in an RFC have been renumbered.  The affected areas are:
     ipv6InterfaceTable, ipIfStatsTable, inetIcmpTable and
     inetIcmpMsgTable

     Split the ipIfStatsTable into two tables under a common OID.  The
     two tables are ipSystemStatsTable which contains system-wide
     statistics and ipIfStatsTable which contains interface-specific
     statistics.  The same counters are available from both tables.

     The compliance and conformance section was rebuilt.  ipGroup2 was
     renamed to ipv4GeneralGroup and ipReasmTimeout was added to it.
     The following groups were created:  ipv4IfGroup, ipv6Ifgroup,
     ipSystemStatsGroup, ipSystemStatsHCOctetGroup,
     ipSystemStatsHCPacketGroup, ipIfStatsGroup, ipIfStatsHCOctetGroup,
     ipIfStatsHCPacketGroup, ipAddressPrefixGroup, ipAddressGroup,
     ipNetToMediaGroup, ipDefaultRouterGroup, ipv6RouterAdvertGroup and
     icmpGroup2.  The compliance section allows a compliant agent to
     provide read-only access to all of the nominally read-write
     objects.

     Many minor changes to deal with errors found from mib compilers.





Routhier, Editor                                    Section 2.  [Page 4]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


     Changed the indexing from inetNetToMediaEntry to use a local copy
     of the ifIndex.

     Import InetZoneIndex for use a a scope index.  Previously this was
     the ScopeIdentifier TC defined within this document.  Also change
     the naming convention for scopes to use index instead of
     identifier.

     Close several issues without changes:

     Should we include an object or objects to express the capability of
     an implementation with respect to items like extension headers for
     IPv6.  I have decided to not include such objects.  I believe that
     we should wait for some deployment experience to see if such
     objects would be useful and to determine their proper granularity.

     Are there other items that could be added to the ipv{4 6}IfTables
     such as (for v4) directed broadcast, proxy arp, header compression,
     broadcast address and arp cache timeout.  As I receive only one
     request for such objects I have not added them.

     Is there a better SMI data type for the lifetime objects in the
     ipAddressPrefixTable, ipDefaultRouterTable and
     ipv6RouterAdvertTable.  I don't think there is a better SMI data
     type.  We could generate some TCs for them (there are several
     classes of lifetime) but I don't think that would be useful.

     There was a note in the v6 interface table suggesting that some of
     the objects could be removed.  I think we have now removed all of
     those objects and don't intend to remove more without comments.

     Should the ipv6ScopeZoneIndexTable include associated objects to
     provide a scope description similar to ipMRouteScopeNameString
     (rfc2932)?

     My current decision is to NOT add such an object or set of objects.
     Should the ipv6AddressIfIdentifier be dropped?  I think this
     provides some utility in specifying the how addresses are formed
     (at least some of them).  There is also the further question of
     moving the Ipv6AddressIfIdentifier TC somewhere else.  I don't
     think it is completely an EUI and therefore it should have a TC
     somewhere other than the IF-MIB and here seems reasonable.

     Any other objects from ipv6IfTable that we need? I don't think so.

     Are there other possible sources for ipAddressPrefixOrigin?  No
     additions were suggested and no action was taken.




Routhier, Editor                                    Section 2.  [Page 5]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


Changes from draft-ops-rfc2011-update-00.txt:

May 2002

     Removed ipv6InterfaceEffectiveMtu and
     ipv6InterfaceIdentifierLength.

     Added text to ipAddressPrefixTable to describe its utility.

     Added text to ipAddressTable to state that multicast addresses are
     described in their own table(s).

     Added ipv4IfAdminStatus and ipv6InterfaceAdminStatus.

     Added text to ipAddressPrefixOrigin to describe that an address
     becomes well known by assignment from IANA or the address
     registries or by specification in a standards track RFC.

     Added text to ipAddressOrigin to clarify the manual vs random
     difference.

     Added text to inetNetToMediaType to clarify the difference between
     static and local.

     Created textual conventions for the following IpAddressOrigin,
     IpAddressStatus and IpAddressPrefixOrigin.

     Added persistence information to all read-write and read-create
     objects:

     ipForwarding & ipDefaultTTL - should be persistent

     ipv6Forwarding, ipv4AdminStatus & ipv6InterfaceAdminStatus - SHOULD
     be persistent

     ipv6InterfaceIdentifier - modified from RW to Read-only

     ipNetToMediaPhysAddress & ipNetToMediaType - should not be
     persistent

     inetNetToMediaPhysAddress & inetNetToMediaType - SHOULD NOT be
     persistent

     Added text to specify that ifIndex objects (ipv4IfIndex,
     ipv6InterfaceIfIndex, ipIfStatsIfIndex, ipAddressPrefixIfIndex,
     ipAddressIfIndex and ipv6ScopeIdIfIndex) use the same indexes as
     ifIndex.




Routhier, Editor                                    Section 2.  [Page 6]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


     Removed ifIndex and code from the descriptions of inetIcmpMsg{In
     Out}Pkts.

     Updated the text for the objects in the ipIfStatsTable.  The new
     text allows them to be either system wide or interface specific.
     It also clarifies which interface should be used for some objects.
     Finally descriptions were added to some newer objects.

     Added ipIfStatsRefreshRate

     Modified the author information.  The main author list has been
     moved to a section within the document and replaced on the front
     page with the editor's name.  The MIB contact information has been
     modified.

     Added text mentioning that ARP (RFC826) and ND (RFC2461) are the
     two most likely ways of populating the Net to Media table.

     Added a reference clause to inetIcmpMsgType pointing to the IANA
     pages for ICMP and ICMPv6 parameters.

     Added text mentioning that ipIfStatsInTooBigErrors is only valid
     for IPv6 but that it should be instantiated for IPv4 as well.

     Added text to the ipAddressPrefixTable and it's objects mentioning
     that it isn't tuned for IPv4 and defaults to use for IPv4
     addresses.

     Added the ipAddressLastChanged object.

     Added reference clauses to ipv6DefaultHopLimit and several objects
     in the ipAddressPrefix table.  I don't think that any other objects
     that don't already have some text have something to reference.

     Modified the IP statistics table.

     ipIfStatsHCInUcastPkts became ipIfStatsHCInReceives

     removed ipIfStatsInTooBigErrors and include those packets in
     ipIfStatsOutFragFails

     added ipIfStatsInForwDatagrams to count packets that we attempt to
     forward

     clarified the text in ipIfStatsOutForwDatagrams to make it clear
     that "success" was related to the forwarding step and not the
     transmission step




Routhier, Editor                                    Section 2.  [Page 7]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


     added ipIfStatsOutTransmits and ipIfStatsHCOutTransmits as counters
     of the packets sent to the lower layers and pointed the OutOctet
     counters to them

     added ipIfStatsOutNoRoutes to count the number of locally generated
     datagrams that couldn't be transmitted as no route was found

     added ipIfStatsOutFragReqds to count the number of datagrams that
     require fragmentation

     Added text and a Case diagram describing the statistics table.

     Added the ipAddressCreated object.

     Removed ipIfStatsHCOutUcastPkts as HCOutTransmits replaces it.

     Also re-arranged the statsTable sequence to try and group the
     objects more rationally.

     Added reachable and retransmit times to the ipv6InterfaceTable

     Added Default router list.

     Added router advertisement configuration table.

November 2001

     Modified the ICMP message table to remove some indexes.  The table
     no longer tracks counters with per-interface or per-ICMP code
     granularity.

12 Jul 2001

     Changed to IPNG working group work item.

     Removed mention of SIIT, since it's just for transition

     Added lots of counters to ipIfStats table, and
     ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime

     Changed ipAddressIfIndex and ScopeIdentifier to refer to IF-MIB
     instead of RFC 2863 or RFC 2233

     Removed text about agents supporting a subset of values from
     ipv6Forwarding; this belongs in an AGENT-CAPABILITIES.

     Un-deprecated ipReasmTimeout.  XXX Do we need ipv6ReasmTimeout too?
     I think not; RFC2460 seems to say that it's a constant 60 seconds.



Routhier, Editor                                    Section 2.  [Page 8]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


Changes from first draft posted to v6mib mailing list:

23 Feb 2001

     Added ipv4InterfaceTable

     Added ipv6InterfaceTable

     Added ipAddressPrefixTable and slightly reworked ipAddressTable
     (nee inetAddressTable).

     Deprecated ipMIBCompliance.  Still need to finish updated ones.

     Added copyright and table of contents.

7 Feb 2001

     Renamed inetIfStats to ipIfStats

     Added ipv6ScopeTable

     Added ScopeIdentifier TC, which should be in INET-ADDRESS-MIB.

     Added SIZE to inetAddrAddr and inetNetToMediaAddress

     Wrote some boilerplate for multi-interface-or-system-wide counter
     tables.

3.  Overview



3.1.  Multi-Stack Implementations

This MIB does not provide native support for implementations of multiple
stacks sharing the same address family.  One option for supporting such
designs is to assign each stack within an address family to a separate
context.  These contexts could then be selected based upon the community
string or context name, with the Entity MIB providing a method for
listing the supported contexts.


3.2.  Discussion of Tables and Groups

This MIB is composed of a small number of discrete objects and a series
of tables meant to form the base for managing IPv4 and IPv6 entities.

While some of the objects are meant to be included in all entities some



Routhier, Editor                                  Section 3.2.  [Page 9]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


of the objects are only conditionally mandatory.  The unconditionally
mandatory objects are mostly counters for IP and ICMP statistics.  The
conditionally mandatory objects fall into one of several groups: objects
for use in higher bandwidth situations, objects for use with IPv4,
objects for use with IPv6 and objects for use on IPv6 routers.  In short
it is not expected that every entity will implement all of the objects
within this MIB.  The reader should consult the conformance and
compliance section to determine which objects are appropriate for a
given entity.


3.2.1.  General Objects

In both IPv4 and IPv6 there are only a small number of "knobs" for
controlling the general IP stack.  Most controls will be in a more
specific setting, such as for controlling a router or TCP engine.

This MIB defines a total of three general knobs only two of which are
used for both IPv4 and IPv6.

Objects are included for both protocols to enable or disable forwarding
and to set limits on the lifetime of a packet (ttl or hop count).

The third knob, the timeout period for reassembling fragments, is only
defined for IPv4 as IPv6 specifies this value directly.

Each of group of objects is required when implementing their respective
protocols.


3.2.2.  Interface Tables

This MIB includes a pair of tables to convey information about the IPv4
and IPv6 protocols that is interface specific.

Special note should be taken of the administrative status objects.
These are defined to allow each protocol to selectively enable or
disable interfaces.  These objects can be used in conjunction with the
ifAdminStatus object to manipulate the interfaces as necessary.  With
these three objects an interface may be enabled or disabled completely
as well as connected connected to the IPv4 stack, the IPv6 stack or both
stacks.  Setting ifAdminStatus to "down" should not affect the protocol
specific status objects.

Each interface table is required when implementing their respective
protocols.





Routhier, Editor                               Section 3.2.2.  [Page 10]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


3.2.3.  IP Statistics Tables

The IP statistics tables (ipSystemStatsTable and ipIfStatsTable) contain
objects to count the number of datagrams and octets that a given entity
has processed.  Unlike the previous attempt this document uses a single
table for multiple address families.  Typically the only two families of
interest are IPv4 and IPv6 however the table can support other families
if necessary.

The first table, ipSystemStatsTable, conveys system wide information.
(That is, the various counters are for all interfaces and not a specific
set of interfaces.)  Its index is formed from a single sub-id that
represents the address family for which the statistics were counted.

The second table, ipIfStatsTable, conveys interface specific
information.  Its index is formed from two sub-ids.  The first
represents the address family (IPv4 and IPv6) and the interface within
that address family is represented by the second sub-id.

The two tables have a similar set of objects which are intended to count
the same things except for the difference in granularity.  The object ID
"ipSystemStatsEntry.2" is reserved in order to align the object ids of
the counters in the first table with their counterparts in the second
table.

Two objects of note are *IfStatsDiscontinuityTime and
*IfStatsRefreshRate.  These objects provide information about the row in
the table more than about the system itself.

The discontinuity object allows a management entity to determine if a
discontinuity event which would invalidate the management entities
understanding of the counters has occurred.  The system being re-
initialized or the interface being cycled are possible examples of a
discontinuity event.

The refresh object allows a management entity to determine a proper
polling interval for the rest of the objects.

The following Case diagram represents the general ordering of the packet
counters.  In order to avoid extra clutter the prefixes "ipSystemStats"
and "ipIfStats" have been removed from each of the counter names.

 from                                            from
 interface                                       upper
                                                 layers
  V                                               V
  |                                               |
  + InReceives (1)                                + OutRequests



Routhier, Editor                               Section 3.2.3.  [Page 11]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


  |                                               |
  |                                               |
  +->-+ InMcastPkts (1)                           |
  |   V                                           |
  +-<-+                                           |
  |                                               |
  +->-+ InBcastPkts (1)                           |
  |   V                                           |
  +-<-+                                           |
  |                                               |
  |                                               |
  +--> InHdrErrors                                +--> OutNoRoutes
  |                                               |
  |                                               |
  +--> InTruncatedPkts                            |
  |                                               |
  |                                               |
  +--> InAddrErrors                               |
  |                                               |
  |                                               |
  +--> InDiscards (2)                             |
  |                                               |
  |                                               |
  +--------+------->------+----->-----+----->-----+
  |  InForwDatagrams      |    OutForwDatagrams   |
  |                       V                       +->-+ OutFragReqds
  |                   InNoRoutes                  |   | (packets)
  / (local packet (3)                             |   |
  |  IF is that of the address                    |   +--> OutFragFails
  |  and may not be the receiving IF)             |   |    (packets)
  |                                               |   |
  +->-+ ReasmReqds (fragments)                    +-<-+ OutFragCreates
  |   |                                           |       (fragments)
  |   |                                           |
  |   +--> ReasmFails (fragments (4))             +->-+ OutMcastPkts (1)
  |   |                                           |   V
  |   |                                           +-<-+
  +-<-+ ReasmOKs (reassembled packets)            |
  |                                               +->-+ OutBcastPkts (1)
  |                                               |   V
  +--> InUnknownProtos                            +-<-+
  |                                               |
  |                                               |
  +--> InDiscards (2)                             +--> OutDiscards (2)
  |                                               |
  |                                               |
  + InDelivers                                    + OutTransmits (1)
  |                                               |



Routhier, Editor                               Section 3.2.3.  [Page 12]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


  V                                               V
 to                                              to
 upper                                           interface
 layers

(1) The HC counters and octet counters are also found at these points
but have been left out for clarity.

(2) The discard counters may increment at any time in the processing
path.

(3) Local packets on the input side are counted on the interface
associated with their destination address, which may not be the
interface on which they were received.  This requirement is caused by
the possibility of losing the original interface during processing,
especially re-assembly.

(4) Some re-assembly algorithms may lose track of the number of
fragments during processing and so some fragments may not be counted in
this object.

The objects in both tables are spread amongst several conformance groups
based on the bandwidth required to wrap the counters within an hour.
The base system group is mandatory for all entities.  The other system
groups are optional depending on bandwidth.  The interface specific-
groups are optional.


3.2.4.  Internet Address Prefix Table

This table provides information about the prefixes that this entity is
using including their lifetimes.  This table provides a convenient place
to which other tables that make use of prefixes, such as the
ipAddressTable, may point.  By including this table the MIB can supply
the prefix information for all addresses yet minimize the amount of
duplication required in storing and accessing this data.  This
arrangement also makes the relationship between addresses that have the
same prefix clear.

This table is required for IPv6 entities.


3.2.5.  Internet Address Table

This table lists the IP addresses (both IPv4 and IPv6) used by this
entity.  It also includes some basic information about how and when the
address was formed and last updated.  This table allows a manager to
determine who a given entity thinks it is.



Routhier, Editor                               Section 3.2.5.  [Page 13]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


This table is required for all IP entities.


3.2.6.  Internet Address Translation Table

This table provides a mapping between IP layer addresses and physical
addresses as would be formed by either ARP for IPv4 or the neighbor
discovery protocol for IPv6.


3.2.7.  IPv6 Scope Zone Index

This table specifies the zone index to interface mapping.  By examining
the table a manager can determine which groups of interfaces are within
a particular zone for a given scope.

The zone index information is only valid within a given entity, the
indexes used on one entity may not be comparable to those used on a
different entity.

This table is required for IPv6 entities.


3.2.8.  Default Router Table

This table lists the default routers known to this entity.  This table
is intended to be a simple list to display the information end nodes may
have been configured with or acquired through a simple system such as
IPv6 router advertisements.  Managers attempting to view more
complicated routing information should examine the routing specific
tables from other MIBs.

This table is required for all entities.


3.2.9.  Router Advertisement Table

This table contains the non-routing information that an IPv6 router
would use in constructing a router advertisement message.  It does not
contain information about the prefixes or other routing specific
information that the router might advertise.  The router should acquire
such information from either the routing tables or from some routing
table specific MIB.

This table is only required for IPv6 router entities.






Routhier, Editor                               Section 3.2.9.  [Page 14]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


3.2.10.  ICMP Statistics Tables

There are two sets of statistics for ICMP.  The first contains a simple
set of counter to track the number of ICMP messages and errors processed
by this entity.

The second supplies more detail about the ICMP messages processed by
this entity.  Its index is formed from two sub-ids.    The first
represents the address family (IPv4 and IPv6) and the particular message
type being counted is represented by the second sub-id.

Both of these tables are required for all entities.


3.2.11.  Conformance and Compliance

This MIB contains several sets of objects.  Some of these sets are
useful on all types of entities while others are only useful on a
limited subset of entities.  The conformance section attempts to group
the objects into sets that may be discussed as units and the compliance
section then details which of these units are required in various
circumstances.

The circumstances used in the compliance section are implementing IPv4,
IPv6 or IPv6 router functions and having bandwidth less than 20MB,
between 20MB and 650MB or greater than 650MB.


3.2.12.  Deprecated Objects

This MIB also includes a set of deprecated objects from pervious
iterations.  They are included as part of the historical record.


4.  Updating Implementations

There are several general classes of change that are required.

The first and most major change is that most of the previous objects
have different object ids and additional indexes to support the
possibility of different address families.  The general counters for IP
and ICMP are examples of this.  They have been moved to the
ipSystemStatsTable and inetIcmpMsgTable respectively.

The second change is the extension of all address objects to allow for
both IPv4 and IPv6 addresses and the addition of an address type object
to specify what address type is in use.




Routhier, Editor                                   Section 4.  [Page 15]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


The third change is the addition of several new objects to the
replacement for a previously existing table such as inetNetToMedia.

The fourth change is the addition of completely new tables such as
ipIfStatsTable and ipDefaultRouterTable.  The first is based on the
previous statistics groups while the second is completely new to this
MIB.



4.1.  Updating an implementation of the IPv4-only IP-MIB

The somewhat more specific changes that are required for IPv4 follow.
Note well:  this is not meant to be an exhaustive list and the reader
should examine the MIB for full details.

Several of the general objects (ipForwarding, ipDefaultTTL,
ipReasmTimeout) remain unchanged.

Most of the rest of the general objects were counters and have been
moved into the ipSystemStatsTable.  The basic instrumentation should
remain the same though the object definitions should be checked for any
clarifications.  If they aren't already in a structure putting the
counter variables in one would be useful.  Several new objects have been
added to count additional items, instrumentation code must be added for
these objects.  Finally the SNMP routines must be updated to handle the
new indexing.

In addition to the ipSystemStatsTable the MIB includes the
ipIfStatsTable.  This table counts the same items as the system table
but does it on a per interface basis.  It is optional and may be
ignored.  If you decide to implement it you may wish to use the previous
instrumentation and arrange for the system statistics table to aggregate
the new interface level statistics.

The ipAddrTable has, loosely,  been converted to the ipAddressTable.
While the general idea remains the same the ipAddressTable is
sufficiently different that writing new code may be easier than updating
old code.  The primary difference is the addition of several new
objects.  In addition the ipAdEntReasmMaxSize has been moved to another
table, ipv4InterfaceTable.  As above the SNMP routines will need to be
updated to handle the new indexing.

The ipNetToMediaTable has been moved to the inetNetToMediaTable.  These
tables are fairly similar and updating the old code may be
straightforward.  As above the SNMP routines will need to be updated to
handle the new indexing.




Routhier, Editor                                 Section 4.1.  [Page 16]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


Two new tables, ipv4InterfaceTable and ipDefaultRouterTable, are
required as well as several new ICMP counters.

Finally there are several tables that are required for IPv6 but are
optional for IPv4 that you may elect to implement.


4.2.  Updating an implementation of the IPv6-MIB

The somewhat more specific changes that are required for IPv6 follow.
Note well:  this is not meant to be an exhaustive list and the reader
should examine the MIB for full details.

Two of the general objects, ipv6Forwarding and ipv6DefaultHopLimit, have
been renamed and given new object identifiers within the ip branch but
are otherwise unchanged.  The new names are ip6Forwarding and
ip6DefaultHopLimit.

While there is an ipv6InterfaceTable that contains some of the pieces
from the ipv6IfTable the two are somewhat different in concept.  The
ipv6IfTable was meant to replicate the ifTable while the
ipv6InterfaceTable is meant to be an addition to the ifTable.  As such
items that were duplicated between the ifTable and ipv6IfTable have been
removed and some new objects added.

The ipv6IfStatsTable most closely resembles the ipIfStatsTable with and
additional index for the address family and most of the instrumentation
should be re-usable.  Some new objects have been added to the
ipIfStatsTable.  As above the SNMP routines will need to be updated to
handle the new indexing.  Finally the ipIfStatsTable is optional and may
be ignored.

The ipSystemStatsTable is effectively new, but it may be able to make
use of most of the instrumentation from the old ipv6IfStatsTable.  As
with the IPv4 discussion one implementation strategy would be to count
the statistics for the ipIfStatsTable and aggregate them when queried
for this table.

The ipv6AddrPrefixTable is now the ipAddressPrefixTable.  The new table
contains an extra object and the additional index required for IPv4
compatibility.  As above the SNMP routines will need to be updated to
handle the new indexing.

The ipAddressTable is loosely based on the ipv6AddrTable but has changed
considerable with the addition of several new objects and the removal of
one of its indexes.

The IPv6 routing information (ipv6RouteNumber, ipv6DiscardedRoutes and



Routhier, Editor                                 Section 4.2.  [Page 17]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


ipv6RouteTable) has been removed from this MIB.  The replacements or
updates for this information is in the update to the IP Forwarding Table
MIB.

The ipv6NetToMediaTable has been converted to the inetNetToMediaTable.
The new table contains an extra object and the additional index required
for IPv4 compatibility.  As above the SNMP routines will need to be
updated to handle the new indexing.

The ICMP tables have been substantially changed.  The previous tables
required counting on a per-message and per-interface basis.  The new
tables only require counting on a per-message per-protocol basis and
include an aggregate of all messages on a per-protocol basis.

In addition to the above several new tables have been added.  Both the
ipv6ScopeZoneIndexTable and ipDefaultRouterTable are required on all
IPv6 entities.  The ipv6RouterAdvertTable is only required on IPv6
routers.


5.  Definitions

IP-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE,
    Integer32, Counter32, IpAddress,
    mib-2, Unsigned32, Counter64       FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    PhysAddress, TruthValue,
    TimeStamp, RowPointer,
    TEXTUAL-CONVENTION, TestAndIncr,
    RowStatus                          FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP    FROM SNMPv2-CONF
    InetAddress, InetAddressType,
    InetAddressPrefixLength,
    InetZoneIndex                      FROM INET-ADDRESS-MIB
    InterfaceIndex,
    InterfaceIndexOrZero               FROM IF-MIB;


ipMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "200302020000Z"
    ORGANIZATION "IETF IPv6 MIB Revision Team"
    CONTACT-INFO
           "Editor:
            Shawn A. Routhier
            Wind River
            500 Wind River Way



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 18]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            Alameda, CA
            USA

            Phone: +1 510 749 2095
            EMail: <sar@epilogue.com>"
    DESCRIPTION
           "The MIB module for managing IP and ICMP implementations, but
            excluding their management of IP routes.

            Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2003).  This version of
            this MIB module is part of RFC xxxx; see the RFC itself for
            full legal notices."
    REVISION      "200302020000Z"
    DESCRIPTION
           "Update and clarify the IP version neutral revision as well
            as add IPv6 objects for ND, default routers and router
            advertisements."
    REVISION      "200107130000Z"
    DESCRIPTION
           "IP version neutral revision."
    REVISION      "9411010000Z"
    DESCRIPTION
           "Published separately as RFC 2011."
    REVISION      "9103310000Z"
    DESCRIPTION
           "The initial revision of this MIB module was part of MIB-II."
    ::= { mib-2 48}

--
-- The textual conventions we define and use in this MIB.
--

IpAddressOrigin ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The origin of the address.

            manual(2) indicates that the address was manually configured
            to a specified address, e.g by user configuration.

            wellknown(3) indicates an address constructed from a well-
            known value, e.g. an IANA-assigned anycast address.

            dhcp(4) indicates an address that was assigned to this
            system by a DHCP server.

            linklayer(5) indicates an address created by IPv6 stateless
            auto-configuration.



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 19]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            random(6) indicates an address chosen by the system at
            random, e.g. an IPv4 address within 169.254/16, or an RFC
            3041 privacy address."
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
        other(1),
        manual(2),
        wellknown(3),
        dhcp(4),
        linklayer(5),
        random(6)
    }

IpAddressStatus ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The status of an address.  Most of the states correspond to
            states from the IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration
            protocol [5].

            The preferred(1) state indicates that this is a valid
            address that can appear as the destination or source address
            of a packet.

            The deprecated(2) state indicates that this is a valid but
            deprecated address that should no longer be used as a source
            address in new communications, but packets addressed to such
            an address are processed as expected.

            The invalid(3) state indicates that this is not valid
            address which should not appear as the destination or source
            address of a packet.

            The inaccessible(4) state indicates that the address is not
            accessible because the interface to which this address is
            assigned is not operational.

            The unknown(5) state indicates that the status can not be
            determined for some reason.

            The tentative(6) state indicates the uniqueness of the
            address on the link is being verified.  Addresses in this
            state should not be used for general communication and
            should only be used to determine the uniqueness of the
            address.

            The duplicate(7) state indicates the address has been
            determined to be non-unique on the link and so must not be
            used.



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 20]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            In the absence of other information, an IPv4 address is
            always preferred(1)."
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
        preferred(1),
        deprecated(2),
        invalid(3),
        inaccessible(4),
        unknown(5),
        tentative(6),
        duplicate(7)
    }


IpAddressPrefixOrigin ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The origin of this prefix.

            manual(2) indicates a prefix that was manually configured.

            wellknown(3) indicates a well-known prefix, e.g. 169.254/16
            for IPv4 auto-configuration or fe80::/10 for IPv6 link-local
            addresses.  Well known prefixes may be assigned by IANA or
            the address registries or by specification in a standards
            track RFC.

            dhcp(4) indicates a prefix that was assigned by a DHCP
            server.

            routeradv(5) indicates a prefix learned from a router
            advertisement.

            Note: while IpAddressOrigin and IpAddressPrefixOrigin are
            similar they are not identical.  The first defines how an
            address was created while the second defines how a prefix
            was found."
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
        other(1),
        manual(2),
        wellknown(3),
        dhcp(4),
        routeradv(5)
    }

Ipv6AddressIfIdentifier ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
     DISPLAY-HINT "2x:"
     STATUS       current
     DESCRIPTION



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 21]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


       "This data type is used to model IPv6 address
       interface identifiers. This is a binary string
        of up to 8 octets in network byte-order."
     SYNTAX      OCTET STRING (SIZE (0..8))

--
-- the IP general group
-- some objects that affect all of IPv4
--

ip       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { mib-2 4 }

ipForwarding OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                    forwarding(1),    -- acting as a router
                    notForwarding(2)  -- NOT acting as a router
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The indication of whether this entity is acting as an IPv4
            router in respect to the forwarding of datagrams received
            by, but not addressed to, this entity.  IPv4 routers forward
            datagrams.  IPv4 hosts do not (except those source-routed
            via the host).

            When this object is written the entity should save the
            change to non-volatile storage and restore the object from
            non-volatile storage upon re-initialization of the system.
            Note: a stronger requirement is not used because this object
            was previously defined."
    ::= { ip 1 }

ipDefaultTTL OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER (1..255)
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The default value inserted into the Time-To-Live field of
            the IPv4 header of datagrams originated at this entity,
            whenever a TTL value is not supplied by the transport layer
            protocol.

            When this object is written the entity should save the
            change to non-volatile storage and restore the object from
            non-volatile storage upon re-initialization of the system.
            Note: a stronger requirement is not used because this object
            was previously defined."



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 22]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    ::= { ip 2 }

ipReasmTimeout OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The maximum number of seconds which received fragments are
            held while they are awaiting reassembly at this entity."
    ::= { ip 13 }

--
-- the IPv6 general group
-- Some objects that affect all of IPv6
--

ip6Forwarding OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                    forwarding(1),    -- acting as a router
                    notForwarding(2)  -- NOT acting as a router
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The indication of whether this entity is acting as an IPv6
            router in respect to the forwarding of datagrams received
            by, but not addressed to, this entity.  IPv6 routers forward
            datagrams.  IPv6 hosts do not (except those source-routed
            via the host).

            When this object is written the entity SHOULD save the
            change to non-volatile storage and restore the object from
            non-volatile storage upon re-initialization of the system."
    ::= { ip 25 }

ip6DefaultHopLimit OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER (0..255)
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The default value inserted into the Hop Limit field of the
            IPv6 header of datagrams originated at this entity, whenever
            a Hop Limit value is not supplied by the transport layer
            protocol.

            When this object is written the entity SHOULD save the
            change to non-volatile storage and restore the object from
            non-volatile storage upon re-initialization of the system."



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 23]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    REFERENCE "RFC2461 Section 6.3.2"
    ::= { ip 26 }

--
-- IPv4 Interface Table
--

ipv4IfTableLastChange OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The value of sysUpTime on the most recent occasion at which
            a row in the ipv4InterfaceTable was added or deleted or when
            an ipv4InterfaceReasmMaxSize or an ipv4InterfaceAdminStatus
            object was modified.

            If new objects are added to the ipv6InterfaceTable that
            require the ipv6InterfaceTableLastChange to be updated when
            they are modified they must specify that requirement in
            their description clause."
    ::= { ip 27 }

ipv4InterfaceTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF Ipv4InterfaceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The table containing per-interface IPv4-specific
            information."
--.OI ip 25
    ::= { ip 28 }

ipv4InterfaceEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Ipv4InterfaceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "An entry containing IPv4-specific information for a specific
            interface."
    INDEX { ipv4InterfaceIfIndex }
    ::= { ipv4InterfaceTable 1 }

Ipv4InterfaceEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        ipv4InterfaceIfIndex       InterfaceIndex,
        ipv4InterfaceReasmMaxSize  Integer32,
        ipv4InterfaceAdminStatus   INTEGER
    }



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 24]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


ipv4InterfaceIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The index value which uniquely identifies the interface to
            which this entry is applicable.  The interface identified by
            a particular value of this index is the same interface as
            identified by the same value of the IF-MIB's ifIndex."
    ::= { ipv4InterfaceEntry 1 }

ipv4InterfaceReasmMaxSize OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The size of the largest IPv4 datagram which this entity can
            re-assemble from incoming IPv4 fragmented datagrams received
            on this interface."
    ::= { ipv4InterfaceEntry 2 }

ipv4InterfaceAdminStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                 up(1),
                 down(2)
    }
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The indication of whether IPv4 is enabled (up) or disabled
            (down) on this interface.  This object does not affect the
            state of the interface itself, only its connection to an
            IPv4 stack.  The IF-MIB should be used to control the state
            of the interface."
    ::= { ipv4InterfaceEntry 3 }



--
-- v6 interface table
--

ipv6IfTableLastChange OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The value of sysUpTime on the most recent occasion at which



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 25]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            a row in the ipv6InterfaceTable was added or deleted or when
            an ipv6InterfaceReasmMaxSize, ipv6InterfaceIdentifier,
            ipv6InterfacePhysicalAddress, ipv6InterfaceAdminStatus,
            ipv6InterfaceReachableTime or ipv6InterfaceRetransmitTime
            object was modified.

            If new objects are added to the ipv6InterfaceTable that
            require the ipv6InterfaceTableLastChange to be updated when
            they are modified they must specify that requirement in
            their description clause."
    ::= { ip 29 }

ipv6InterfaceTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF Ipv6InterfaceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The table containing per-interface IPv6-specific
            information."
    ::= { ip 30 }

ipv6InterfaceEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Ipv6InterfaceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "An entry containing IPv6-specific information for a given
            interface."
    INDEX { ipv6InterfaceIfIndex }
    ::= { ipv6InterfaceTable 1 }

Ipv6InterfaceEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        ipv6InterfaceIfIndex          InterfaceIndex,
        ipv6InterfaceReasmMaxSize     Unsigned32,
        ipv6InterfaceIdentifier       Ipv6AddressIfIdentifier,
        ipv6InterfacePhysicalAddress  PhysAddress,
        ipv6InterfaceAdminStatus      INTEGER,
        ipv6InterfaceReachableTime    Unsigned32,
        ipv6InterfaceRetransmitTime   Unsigned32
    }

ipv6InterfaceIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The index value which uniquely identifies the interface to
            which this entry is applicable.  The interface identified by



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 26]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            a particular value of this index is the same interface as
            identified by the same value of the IF-MIB's ifIndex."
    ::= { ipv6InterfaceEntry 1 }

ipv6InterfaceReasmMaxSize OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Unsigned32 (0..65535)
    UNITS       "octets"
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The size of the largest IPv6 datagram which this entity can
            re-assemble from incoming IPv6 fragmented datagrams received
            on this interface."
    ::= { ipv6InterfaceEntry 2 }

ipv6InterfaceIdentifier OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Ipv6AddressIfIdentifier
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The Interface Identifier for this interface that is (at
            least) unique on the link this interface is attached to. The
            Interface Identifier is combined with an address prefix to
            form an interface address.

            By default, the Interface Identifier is auto-configured
            according to the rules of the link type this interface is
            attached to."
    ::= { ipv6InterfaceEntry 3 }

ipv6InterfacePhysicalAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     PhysAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The interface's physical address. For example, for an IPv6
            interface attached to an 802.x link, this object normally
            contains a MAC address. Note that in some cases this address
            may differ from the address of the interface's protocol sub-
            layer.  The interface's media-specific MIB must define the
            bit and byte ordering and the format of the value of this
            object. For interfaces which do not have such an address
            (e.g., a serial line), this object should contain an octet
            string of zero length."
    ::= { ipv6InterfaceEntry 4 }

ipv6InterfaceAdminStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 27]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


                 up(1),
                 down(2)
    }
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The indication of whether IPv6 is enabled (up) or disabled
            (down) on this interface.  This object does not affect the
            state of the interface itself, only its connection to an
            IPv6 stack.  The IF-MIB should be used to control the state
            of the interface.

            When this object is written the entity SHOULD save the
            change to non-volatile storage and restore the object from
            non-volatile storage upon re-initialization of the system."
    ::= { ipv6InterfaceEntry 5 }

ipv6InterfaceReachableTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Unsigned32
    UNITS "milliseconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The time a neighbor is considered reachable after receiving
            a reachability confirmation."
    REFERENCE "RFC2461, Section 6.3.2"
    ::= { ipv6InterfaceEntry 6 }

ipv6InterfaceRetransmitTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Unsigned32
    UNITS "milliseconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The time between retransmissions of Neighbor Solicitation
            messages to a neighbor when resolving the address or when
            probing the reachability of a neighbor."
    REFERENCE "RFC2461, Section 6.3.2"
    ::= { ipv6InterfaceEntry 7 }



--
-- Per-Interface or System-Wide IP statistics.
--
-- The following two tables, ipSystemStatsTable and ipIfStatsTable
-- are intended to provide the same counters at different granularities.
-- The ipSystemStatsTable provides system wide counters aggregating



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 28]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


-- the traffic counters for all interfaces for a given address family.
-- The ipIfStatsTable provides the same counters but for specific
-- interfaces rather than as an aggregate.
--
-- Note well: If a system provides both system-wide and interface-specific
-- values the system-wide value may not be equal to the sum of the
-- interface-specific values across all interfaces due to e.g. dynamic
-- interface creation/deletion.

ipTrafficStats OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ip 31 }

ipSystemStatsTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF IpSystemStatsEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The table containing system wide, address family specific
            traffic statistics.  This table and the ipIfStatsTable
            contain similar objects whose difference is in their
            granularity.  Where this table contains system wide traffic
            statistics the ipIfStatsTable contains the same statistics
            but counted on a per-interface basis."
    ::= { ipTrafficStats 1 }

ipSystemStatsEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpSystemStatsEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "A statistics entry containing system-wide objects for a
            particular address family."
    INDEX { ipSystemStatsAFType }
    ::= { ipSystemStatsTable 1 }

IpSystemStatsEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        ipSystemStatsAFType             InetAddressType,
        ipSystemStatsInReceives         Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsHCInReceives       Counter64,
        ipSystemStatsInOctets           Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsHCInOctets         Counter64,
        ipSystemStatsInHdrErrors        Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsInNoRoutes         Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsInAddrErrors       Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsInUnknownProtos    Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsInTruncatedPkts    Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsInForwDatagrams    Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsReasmReqds         Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsReasmOKs           Counter32,



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 29]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


        ipSystemStatsReasmFails         Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsInDiscards         Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsInDelivers         Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsOutRequests        Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsOutNoRoutes        Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsOutForwDatagrams   Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsOutDiscards        Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsOutFragReqds       Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsOutFragOKs         Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsOutFragFails       Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsOutFragCreates     Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsOutTransmits       Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsHCOutTransmits     Counter64,
        ipSystemStatsOutOctets          Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsHCOutOctets        Counter64,
        ipSystemStatsInMcastPkts        Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsHCInMcastPkts      Counter64,
        ipSystemStatsInMcastOctets      Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsHCInMcastOctets    Counter64,
        ipSystemStatsOutMcastPkts       Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsHCOutMcastPkts     Counter64,
        ipSystemStatsOutMcastOctets     Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsHCOutMcastOctets   Counter64,
        ipSystemStatsInBcastPkts        Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsHCInBcastPkts      Counter64,
        ipSystemStatsOutBcastPkts       Counter32,
        ipSystemStatsHCOutBcastPkts     Counter64,
        ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime  TimeStamp,
        ipSystemStatsRefreshRate        Unsigned32
    }

ipSystemStatsAFType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetAddressType
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The address family for this row.  May only be IPv4 or IPv6."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 1 }

-- This object ID is reserved to allow the IDs for this table's objects
-- to align with the objects in the ipIfStatsTable.
-- ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 2 }

ipSystemStatsInReceives OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 30]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


           "The total number of input IP datagrams received, including
            those received in error.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 3 }

ipSystemStatsHCInReceives OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of input IP datagrams received, including
            those received in error.  This object counts the same
            datagrams as ipSystemStatsInReceives but allows for larger
            values.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 4 }

ipSystemStatsInOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of octets received in input IP datagrams,
            including those received in error.  Octets from datagrams
            counted in ipSystemStatsInReceives MUST be counted here.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 5 }

ipSystemStatsHCInOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of octets received in input IP datagrams,
            including those received in error.  This object counts the
            same octets as ipSystemStatsInOctets but allows for larger



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 31]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            values.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 6 }

ipSystemStatsInHdrErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of input IP datagrams discarded due to errors in
            their IP headers, including version number mismatch, other
            format errors, hop count exceeded, errors discovered in
            processing their IP options, etc.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 7 }

ipSystemStatsInNoRoutes OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of input IP datagrams discarded because no route
            could be found to transmit them to their destination.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 8 }

ipSystemStatsInAddrErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of input IP datagrams discarded because the IP
            address in their IP header's destination field was not a
            valid address to be received at this entity.  This count
            includes invalid addresses (e.g., ::0) and unsupported
            addresses (e.g., addresses with unallocated prefixes).  For



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 32]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            entities which are not IP routers and therefore do not
            forward datagrams, this counter includes datagrams discarded
            because the destination address was not a local address.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 9 }

ipSystemStatsInUnknownProtos OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of locally-addressed IP datagrams received
            successfully but discarded because of an unknown or
            unsupported protocol.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            interface to which these datagrams were addressed is
            incremented.  This interface might not be the same as the
            input interface for some of the datagrams.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 10 }

ipSystemStatsInTruncatedPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of input IP datagrams discarded because datagram
            frame didn't carry enough data.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 11 }

ipSystemStatsInForwDatagrams OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 33]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of input datagrams for which this entity was not
            their final IP destination and for which this entity
            attempted to find a route to forward them to that final
            destination.  In entities which do not act as IP routers,
            this counter will include only those datagrams which were
            Source-Routed via this entity, and the Source-Route
            processing was successful.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            incoming interface is incremented for each datagram.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 12 }

ipSystemStatsReasmReqds OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP fragments received which needed to be
            reassembled at this interface.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            interface to which these fragments were addressed is
            incremented.  This interface might not be the same as the
            input interface for some of the fragments.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 13 }

ipSystemStatsReasmOKs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP datagrams successfully reassembled.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            interface to which these datagrams were addressed is
            incremented.  This interface might not be the same as the
            input interface for some of the datagrams.



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 34]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 14 }

ipSystemStatsReasmFails OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of failures detected by the IP re-assembly
            algorithm (for whatever reason: timed out, errors, etc.).
            Note that this is not necessarily a count of discarded IP
            fragments since some algorithms (notably the algorithm in
            RFC 815) can lose track of the number of fragments by
            combining them as they are received.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            interface to which these fragments were addressed is
            incremented.  This interface might not be the same as the
            input interface for some of the fragments.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 15 }

ipSystemStatsInDiscards OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of input IP datagrams for which no problems were
            encountered to prevent their continued processing, but which
            were discarded (e.g., for lack of buffer space).  Note that
            this counter does not include any datagrams discarded while
            awaiting re-assembly.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 16 }

ipSystemStatsInDelivers OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 35]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of datagrams successfully delivered to IP
            user-protocols (including ICMP).

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            interface to which these datagrams were addressed is
            incremented.  This interface might not be the same as the
            input interface for some of the datagrams.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 17 }

ipSystemStatsOutRequests OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of IP datagrams which local IP user-
            protocols (including ICMP) supplied to IP in requests for
            transmission.  Note that this counter does not include any
            datagrams counted in ipSystemStatsOutForwDatagrams.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 18 }

ipSystemStatsOutNoRoutes OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of local generated IP datagrams discarded because
            no route could be found to transmit them to their
            destination.

            As no route can be found for these datagrams the interface
            specific instances are not meaningful for this object.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 36]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 19 }

ipSystemStatsOutForwDatagrams OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of datagrams which this entity received and for
            which it was successful in finding a path to their final
            destination.  In entities which do not act as IP routers,
            this counter will include only those datagrams which were
            Source-Routed via this entity, and the Source-Route
            processing was successful.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            outgoing interface is incremented for a successfully
            forwarded datagram.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 20 }

ipSystemStatsOutDiscards OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of output IP datagrams for which no problem was
            encountered to prevent their transmission to their
            destination, but which were discarded (e.g., for lack of
            buffer space).  Note that this counter would include
            datagrams counted in ipSystemStatsOutForwDatagrams if any
            such datagrams met this (discretionary) discard criterion.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 21 }

ipSystemStatsOutFragReqds OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 37]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


           "The number of IP datagrams that would require fragmentation
            in order to be transmitted.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            outgoing interface is incremented for a successfully
            fragmented datagram.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 22 }

ipSystemStatsOutFragOKs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP datagrams that have been successfully
            fragmented.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            outgoing interface is incremented for a successfully
            fragmented datagram.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 23 }

ipSystemStatsOutFragFails OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP datagrams that have been discarded because
            they needed to be fragmented but could not be.  This
            includes IPv4 packets that have the DF bit set and IPv6
            packets that are being forwarded and exceed the outgoing
            link MTU.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            outgoing interface is incremented for an unsuccessfully
            fragmented datagram.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 38]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 24 }

ipSystemStatsOutFragCreates OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of output datagram fragments that have been
            generated as a result of IP fragmentation.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            outgoing interface is incremented for a successfully
            fragmented datagram.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 25 }

ipSystemStatsOutTransmits OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of IP datagrams that this entity supplied
            to the lower layers for transmission.  This includes
            datagrams generated local and those forwarded by this
            entity.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 26 }

ipSystemStatsHCOutTransmits OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of IP datagrams that this entity supplied
            to the lower layers for transmission.  This object counts
            the same datagrams as ipSystemStatsOutTransmits but allows
            for larger values.




Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 39]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 27 }

ipSystemStatsOutOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of octets in IP datagrams delivered to the
            lower layers for transmission.  Octets from datagrams
            counted in ipSystemStatsOutTransmits MUST be counted here.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 28 }

ipSystemStatsHCOutOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of octets in IP datagrams delivered to the
            lower layers for transmission.  This objects counts the same
            octets as ipSystemStatsOutOctets but allows for larger
            values.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 29 }

ipSystemStatsInMcastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP multicast datagrams received.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 40]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 30 }

ipSystemStatsHCInMcastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP multicast datagrams received.  This object
            counts the same datagrams as ipSystemStatsInMcastPkts but
            allows for larger values.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 31 }

ipSystemStatsInMcastOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of octets received in IP multicast
            datagrams.  Octets from datagrams counted in
            ipSystemStatsOutMcastPkts MUST be counted here.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 32 }

ipSystemStatsHCInMcastOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of octets received in IP multicast
            datagrams.  This object counts the same octets as
            ipSystemStatsInMcastOctets but allows for larger values.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 33 }

ipSystemStatsOutMcastPkts OBJECT-TYPE



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 41]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP multicast datagrams transmitted.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 34 }

ipSystemStatsHCOutMcastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP multicast datagrams transmitted.  This
            object counts the same datagrams as
            ipSystemStatsOutMcastPkts but allows for larger values.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 35 }

ipSystemStatsOutMcastOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of octets transmitted in IP multicast
            datagrams.  Octets from datagrams counted in
            ipSystemStatsInMcastPkts MUST be counted here.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 36 }

ipSystemStatsHCOutMcastOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of octets received in IP multicast



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 42]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            datagrams.  This object counts the same octets as
            ipSystemStatsOutMcastOctets but allows for larger values.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 37 }

ipSystemStatsInBcastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP broadcast datagrams received.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 38 }

ipSystemStatsHCInBcastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP broadcast datagrams received.  This object
            counts the same datagrams as ipSystemStatsInBcastPkts but
            allows for larger values.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 39 }

ipSystemStatsOutBcastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP broadcast datagrams transmitted.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 43]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 40 }

ipSystemStatsHCOutBcastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP broadcast datagrams transmitted.  This
            object counts the same datagrams as
            ipSystemStatsOutBcastPkts but allows for larger values.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 41 }

ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The value of sysUpTime on the most recent occasion at which
            any one or more of this entry's counters suffered a
            discontinuity.

            If no such discontinuities have occurred since the last re-
            initialization of the local management subsystem, then this
            object contains a zero value."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 42 }

ipSystemStatsRefreshRate OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Unsigned32
    UNITS "milli-seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The minimum reasonable polling interval for this entry.
            This object provides an indication of the minimum amount of
            time required to update the counters in this entry."
    ::= { ipSystemStatsEntry 43 }



ipIfStatsTableLastChange OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 44]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    DESCRIPTION
           "The value of sysUpTime on the most recent occasion at which
            a row in the ipIfStatsTable was added or deleted.

            If new objects are added to the ipIfStatsTable that require
            the ipIfStatsTableLastChange to be updated when they are
            modified they must specify that requirement in their
            description clause."
    ::= { ipTrafficStats 2 }

ipIfStatsTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF IpIfStatsEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The table containing per-interface traffic statistics.  This
            table and the ipSystemStatsTable contain similar objects
            whose difference is in their granularity.  Where this table
            contains per-interface statistics the ipSystemStatsTable
            contains the same statistics but counted on a system wide
            basis."
    ::= { ipTrafficStats 3 }

ipIfStatsEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpIfStatsEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "An interface statistics entry containing objects for a
            particular interface and address family."
    INDEX { ipIfStatsAFType, ipIfStatsIfIndex }
    ::= { ipIfStatsTable 1 }

IpIfStatsEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        ipIfStatsAFType             InetAddressType,
        ipIfStatsIfIndex            InterfaceIndexOrZero,
        ipIfStatsInReceives         Counter32,
        ipIfStatsHCInReceives       Counter64,
        ipIfStatsInOctets           Counter32,
        ipIfStatsHCInOctets         Counter64,
        ipIfStatsInHdrErrors        Counter32,
        ipIfStatsInNoRoutes         Counter32,
        ipIfStatsInAddrErrors       Counter32,
        ipIfStatsInUnknownProtos    Counter32,
        ipIfStatsInTruncatedPkts    Counter32,
        ipIfStatsInForwDatagrams    Counter32,
        ipIfStatsReasmReqds         Counter32,
        ipIfStatsReasmOKs           Counter32,



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 45]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


        ipIfStatsReasmFails         Counter32,
        ipIfStatsInDiscards         Counter32,
        ipIfStatsInDelivers         Counter32,
        ipIfStatsOutRequests        Counter32,
        ipIfStatsOutNoRoutes        Counter32,
        ipIfStatsOutForwDatagrams   Counter32,
        ipIfStatsOutDiscards        Counter32,
        ipIfStatsOutFragReqds       Counter32,
        ipIfStatsOutFragOKs         Counter32,
        ipIfStatsOutFragFails       Counter32,
        ipIfStatsOutFragCreates     Counter32,
        ipIfStatsOutTransmits       Counter32,
        ipIfStatsHCOutTransmits     Counter64,
        ipIfStatsOutOctets          Counter32,
        ipIfStatsHCOutOctets        Counter64,
        ipIfStatsInMcastPkts        Counter32,
        ipIfStatsHCInMcastPkts      Counter64,
        ipIfStatsInMcastOctets      Counter32,
        ipIfStatsHCInMcastOctets    Counter64,
        ipIfStatsOutMcastPkts       Counter32,
        ipIfStatsHCOutMcastPkts     Counter64,
        ipIfStatsOutMcastOctets     Counter32,
        ipIfStatsHCOutMcastOctets   Counter64,
        ipIfStatsInBcastPkts        Counter32,
        ipIfStatsHCInBcastPkts      Counter64,
        ipIfStatsOutBcastPkts       Counter32,
        ipIfStatsHCOutBcastPkts     Counter64,
        ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime  TimeStamp,
        ipIfStatsRefreshRate        Unsigned32
    }

ipIfStatsAFType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetAddressType
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The address family for this row.  May only be IPv4 or IPv6."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 1 }

ipIfStatsIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InterfaceIndexOrZero
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The index value which uniquely identifies the interface to
            which this entry is applicable.  The interface identified by
            a particular value of this index is the same interface as
            identified by the same value of the IF-MIB's ifIndex."



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 46]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 2 }

ipIfStatsInReceives OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of input IP datagrams received, including
            those received in error.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 3 }

ipIfStatsHCInReceives OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of input IP datagrams received, including
            those received in error.  This object counts the same
            datagrams as ipIfStatsInReceives but allows for larger
            values.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 4 }

ipIfStatsInOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of octets received in input IP datagrams,
            including those received in error.  Octets from datagrams
            counted in ipIfStatsInReceives MUST be counted here.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 5 }

ipIfStatsHCInOctets OBJECT-TYPE



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 47]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of octets received in input IP datagrams,
            including those received in error.  This object counts the
            same octets as ipIfStatsInOctets but allows for larger
            values.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 6 }

ipIfStatsInHdrErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of input IP datagrams discarded due to errors in
            their IP headers, including version number mismatch, other
            format errors, hop count exceeded, errors discovered in
            processing their IP options, etc.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 7 }

ipIfStatsInNoRoutes OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of input IP datagrams discarded because no route
            could be found to transmit them to their destination.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 8 }

ipIfStatsInAddrErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 48]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of input IP datagrams discarded because the IP
            address in their IP header's destination field was not a
            valid address to be received at this entity.  This count
            includes invalid addresses (e.g., ::0) and unsupported
            addresses (e.g., addresses with unallocated prefixes).  For
            entities which are not IP routers and therefore do not
            forward datagrams, this counter includes datagrams discarded
            because the destination address was not a local address.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 9 }

ipIfStatsInUnknownProtos OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of locally-addressed IP datagrams received
            successfully but discarded because of an unknown or
            unsupported protocol.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            interface to which these datagrams were addressed is
            incremented.  This interface might not be the same as the
            input interface for some of the datagrams.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 10 }

ipIfStatsInTruncatedPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of input IP datagrams discarded because datagram
            frame didn't carry enough data.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 49]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 11 }

ipIfStatsInForwDatagrams OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of input datagrams for which this entity was not
            their final IP destination and for which this entity
            attempted to find a route to forward them to that final
            destination.  In entities which do not act as IP routers,
            this counter will include only those datagrams which were
            Source-Routed via this entity, and the Source-Route
            processing was successful.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            incoming interface is incremented for each datagram.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 12 }

ipIfStatsReasmReqds OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP fragments received which needed to be
            reassembled at this interface.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            interface to which these fragments were addressed is
            incremented.  This interface might not be the same as the
            input interface for some of the fragments.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 13 }

ipIfStatsReasmOKs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 50]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP datagrams successfully reassembled.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            interface to which these datagrams were addressed is
            incremented.  This interface might not be the same as the
            input interface for some of the datagrams.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 14 }

ipIfStatsReasmFails OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of failures detected by the IP re-assembly
            algorithm (for whatever reason: timed out, errors, etc.).
            Note that this is not necessarily a count of discarded IP
            fragments since some algorithms (notably the algorithm in
            RFC 815) can lose track of the number of fragments by
            combining them as they are received.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            interface to which these fragments were addressed is
            incremented.  This interface might not be the same as the
            input interface for some of the fragments.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 15 }

ipIfStatsInDiscards OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of input IP datagrams for which no problems were
            encountered to prevent their continued processing, but which
            were discarded (e.g., for lack of buffer space).  Note that
            this counter does not include any datagrams discarded while
            awaiting re-assembly.




Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 51]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 16 }

ipIfStatsInDelivers OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of datagrams successfully delivered to IP
            user-protocols (including ICMP).

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            interface to which these datagrams were addressed is
            incremented.  This interface might not be the same as the
            input interface for some of the datagrams.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 17 }

ipIfStatsOutRequests OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of IP datagrams which local IP user-
            protocols (including ICMP) supplied to IP in requests for
            transmission.  Note that this counter does not include any
            datagrams counted in ipIfStatsOutForwDatagrams.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 18 }

ipIfStatsOutNoRoutes OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of local generated IP datagrams discarded because
            no route could be found to transmit them to their



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 52]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            destination.

            As no route can be found for these datagrams the interface
            specific instances are not meaningful for this object.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 19 }

ipIfStatsOutForwDatagrams OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of datagrams which this entity received and for
            which it was successful in finding a path to their final
            destination.  In entities which do not act as IP routers,
            this counter will include only those datagrams which were
            Source-Routed via this entity, and the Source-Route
            processing was successful.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            outgoing interface is incremented for a successfully
            forwarded datagram.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 20 }

ipIfStatsOutDiscards OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of output IP datagrams for which no problem was
            encountered to prevent their transmission to their
            destination, but which were discarded (e.g., for lack of
            buffer space).  Note that this counter would include
            datagrams counted in ipIfStatsOutForwDatagrams if any such
            datagrams met this (discretionary) discard criterion.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 53]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 21 }

ipIfStatsOutFragReqds OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP datagrams that would require fragmentation
            in order to be transmitted.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            outgoing interface is incremented for a successfully
            fragmented datagram.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 22 }

ipIfStatsOutFragOKs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP datagrams that have been successfully
            fragmented.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            outgoing interface is incremented for a successfully
            fragmented datagram.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 23 }

ipIfStatsOutFragFails OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP datagrams that have been discarded because
            they needed to be fragmented but could not be.  This
            includes IPv4 packets that have the DF bit set and IPv6
            packets that are being forwarded and exceed the outgoing



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 54]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            link MTU.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            outgoing interface is incremented for an unsuccessfully
            fragmented datagram.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 24 }

ipIfStatsOutFragCreates OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of output datagram fragments that have been
            generated as a result of IP fragmentation.

            When tracking interface statistics the counter of the
            outgoing interface is incremented for a successfully
            fragmented datagram.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 25 }

ipIfStatsOutTransmits OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of IP datagrams that this entity supplied
            to the lower layers for transmission.  This includes
            datagrams generated local and those forwarded by this
            entity.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 26 }

ipIfStatsHCOutTransmits OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 55]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of IP datagrams that this entity supplied
            to the lower layers for transmission.  This object counts
            the same datagrams as ipIfStatsOutTransmits but allows for
            larger values.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 27 }

ipIfStatsOutOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of octets in IP datagrams delivered to the
            lower layers for transmission.  Octets from datagrams
            counted in ipIfStatsOutTransmits MUST be counted here.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 28 }

ipIfStatsHCOutOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of octets in IP datagrams delivered to the
            lower layers for transmission.  This objects counts the same
            octets as ipIfStatsOutOctets but allows for larger values.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 29 }

ipIfStatsInMcastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 56]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP multicast datagrams received.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 30 }

ipIfStatsHCInMcastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP multicast datagrams received.  This object
            counts the same datagrams as ipIfStatsInMcastPkts but allows
            for larger values.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 31 }

ipIfStatsInMcastOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of octets received in IP multicast
            datagrams.  Octets from datagrams counted in
            ipIfStatsOutMcastPkts MUST be counted here.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 32 }

ipIfStatsHCInMcastOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of octets received in IP multicast
            datagrams.  This object counts the same octets as
            ipIfStatsInMcastOctets but allows for larger values.




Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 57]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 33 }

ipIfStatsOutMcastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP multicast datagrams transmitted.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 34 }

ipIfStatsHCOutMcastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP multicast datagrams transmitted.  This
            object counts the same datagrams as ipIfStatsOutMcastPkts
            but allows for larger values.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 35 }

ipIfStatsOutMcastOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of octets transmitted in IP multicast
            datagrams.  Octets from datagrams counted in
            ipIfStatsInMcastPkts MUST be counted here.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 36 }



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 58]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


ipIfStatsHCOutMcastOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of octets received in IP multicast
            datagrams.  This object counts the same octets as
            ipIfStatsOutMcastOctets but allows for larger values.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 37 }

ipIfStatsInBcastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP broadcast datagrams received.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 38 }

ipIfStatsHCInBcastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP broadcast datagrams received.  This object
            counts the same datagrams as ipIfStatsInBcastPkts but allows
            for larger values.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 39 }

ipIfStatsOutBcastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 59]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


           "The number of IP broadcast datagrams transmitted.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 40 }

ipIfStatsHCOutBcastPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IP broadcast datagrams transmitted.  This
            object counts the same datagrams as ipIfStatsOutBcastPkts
            but allows for larger values.

            Discontinuities in the value of this counter can occur at
            re-initialization of the management system, and at other
            times as indicated by the value of
            ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 41 }

ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The value of sysUpTime on the most recent occasion at which
            any one or more of this entry's counters suffered a
            discontinuity.

            If no such discontinuities have occurred since the last re-
            initialization of the local management subsystem, then this
            object contains a zero value."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 42 }

ipIfStatsRefreshRate OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Unsigned32
    UNITS "milli-seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The minimum reasonable polling interval for this entry.
            This object provides an indication of the minimum amount of
            time required to update the counters in this entry."
    ::= { ipIfStatsEntry 43 }




Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 60]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


--
-- Internet Address Prefix table
--

ipAddressPrefixTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF IpAddressPrefixEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "This table allows the user to determine the source of an IP
            address or set of IP addresses and allows other tables to
            share the information via pointer rather than by copying.

            For example when the node configures both a unicast and
            anycast address for a prefix the ipAddressPrefix objects for
            those addresses will point to a single row in this table.

            This table primarily provides support for IPv6 prefixes and
            several of the objects are less meaningful for IPv4.  The
            table continues to allow IPv4 addresses to allow future
            flexibility.  In order to promote a common configuration
            this document includes suggestions for default values for
            IPv4 prefixes.  Each of these values may be overridden if an
            object is meaningful to the node."
    ::= { ip 32 }

ipAddressPrefixEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddressPrefixEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "inet prefix entry"
    INDEX    { ipAddressPrefixIfIndex, ipAddressPrefixType,
               ipAddressPrefixPrefix, ipAddressPrefixLength }
    ::= { ipAddressPrefixTable 1 }

IpAddressPrefixEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        ipAddressPrefixIfIndex               InterfaceIndex,
        ipAddressPrefixType                  InetAddressType,
        ipAddressPrefixPrefix                InetAddress,
        ipAddressPrefixLength                InetAddressPrefixLength,
        ipAddressPrefixOrigin                IpAddressPrefixOrigin,
        ipAddressPrefixOnLinkFlag            TruthValue,
        ipAddressPrefixAutonomousFlag        TruthValue,
        ipAddressPrefixAdvPreferredLifetime  Unsigned32,
        ipAddressPrefixAdvValidLifetime      Unsigned32
    }




Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 61]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


ipAddressPrefixIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The index value which uniquely identifies the interface on
            which this prefix is configured.  The interface identified
            by a particular value of this index is the same interface as
            identified by the same value of the IF-MIB's ifIndex."
    ::= { ipAddressPrefixEntry 1 }

ipAddressPrefixType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetAddressType
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The address type of ipAddressPrefix.  Only IPv4 and IPv6
            addresses are expected."
    ::= { ipAddressPrefixEntry 2 }

ipAddressPrefixPrefix OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetAddress (SIZE(0..36))
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The address prefix.  Bits after ipAddressPrefixLength must
            be zero."
    ::= { ipAddressPrefixEntry 3 }

ipAddressPrefixLength OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetAddressPrefixLength
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The prefix length associated with this prefix."
    ::= { ipAddressPrefixEntry 4 }

ipAddressPrefixOrigin OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddressPrefixOrigin
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The origin of this prefix."
    ::= { ipAddressPrefixEntry 5 }

ipAddressPrefixOnLinkFlag OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-only



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 62]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "This object has the value 'true(1)', if this prefix can be
            used  for on-link determination and the value 'false(2)'
            otherwise.

            The default for IPv4 prefixes is 'true(1)'."
    REFERENCE "For IPv6 RFC2461, especially sections 2 and 4.6.2 and RFC2462"
    ::= { ipAddressPrefixEntry 6 }

ipAddressPrefixAutonomousFlag OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "Autonomous address configuration flag. When true(1),
            indicates that this prefix can be used for autonomous
            address configuration (i.e. can be used to form a local
            interface address).  If false(2), it is not used to auto-
            configure a local interface address.

            The default for IPv4 prefixes is 'false(2)'."
    REFERENCE "For IPv6 RFC2461, especially sections 2 and 4.6.2 and RFC2462"
    ::= { ipAddressPrefixEntry 7 }

ipAddressPrefixAdvPreferredLifetime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Unsigned32
    UNITS       "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The length of time in seconds that this prefix will remain
            preferred, i.e. time until deprecation.  A value of
            4,294,967,295 represents infinity.

            The address generated from a deprecated prefix should no
            longer be used as a source address in new communications,
            but packets received on such an interface are processed as
            expected.

            The default for IPv4 prefixes is 4,294,967,295 (infinity)."
    REFERENCE "For IPv6 RFC2461, especially sections 2 and 4.6.2 and RFC2462"
    ::= { ipAddressPrefixEntry 8 }

ipAddressPrefixAdvValidLifetime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Unsigned32
    UNITS       "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-only



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 63]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The length of time, in seconds, that this prefix will remain
            valid, i.e. time until invalidation.  A value of
            4,294,967,295 represents infinity.

            The address generated from an invalidated prefix should not
            appear as the destination or source address of a packet.

            The default for IPv4 prefixes is 4,294,967,295 (infinity)."
    REFERENCE "For IPv6 RFC2461, especially sections 2 and 4.6.2 and RFC2462"
    ::= { ipAddressPrefixEntry 9 }



--
-- Internet Address Table
--

ipAddressTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF IpAddressEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "This table contains addressing information relevant to the
            entity's interfaces.

            This table does not contain multicast address information.
            Tables for such information should be contained in multicast
            specific MIBs such as RFC3019."
    ::= { ip 33 }

ipAddressEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddressEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "inet addr entry"
    INDEX { ipAddressAddrType, ipAddressAddr }
    ::= { ipAddressTable 1 }

IpAddressEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        ipAddressAddrType     InetAddressType,
        ipAddressAddr         InetAddress,
        ipAddressIfIndex      InterfaceIndex,
        ipAddressType         INTEGER,
        ipAddressPrefix       RowPointer,
        ipAddressOrigin       IpAddressOrigin,



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 64]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


        ipAddressStatus       IpAddressStatus,
        ipAddressCreated      TimeStamp,
        ipAddressLastChanged  TimeStamp
    }

ipAddressAddrType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetAddressType
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The address type of ipAddressAddr."
    ::= { ipAddressEntry 1 }

ipAddressAddr OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetAddress (SIZE(0..36))
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The IP address to which this entry's addressing information
            pertains."
    ::= { ipAddressEntry 2 }

ipAddressIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The index value which uniquely identifies the interface to
            which this entry is applicable.  The interface identified by
            a particular value of this index is the same interface as
            identified by the same value of the IF-MIB's ifIndex."
    ::= { ipAddressEntry 3 }

ipAddressType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                 unicast(1),
                 anycast(2),
                 broadcast(3)
    }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The type of address.  broadcast(3) is not a valid value for
            IPv6 addresses [draft-ietf-ipngwg-addr-arch-v3-11.txt].  "
    ::= { ipAddressEntry 4 }

ipAddressPrefix OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowPointer



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 65]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "A pointer to the row in the prefix table to which this
            address belongs.  May be { 0 0 } if there is no such row."
    ::= { ipAddressEntry 5 }

ipAddressOrigin OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddressOrigin
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The origin of the address."
    ::= { ipAddressEntry 6 }

ipAddressStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddressStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The status of the address, describing if the address can be
            used for communication.

            In the absence of other information, an IPv4 address is
            always preferred(1)."
    ::= { ipAddressEntry 7 }

ipAddressCreated OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The value of sysUpTime at the time this entry was created.
            If this entry was created prior to the last re-
            initialization of the local network management subsystem,
            then this object contains a zero value."
    ::= { ipAddressEntry 8 }

ipAddressLastChanged OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The value of sysUpTime at the time this entry was last
            updated.  If this entry was updated prior to the last re-
            initialization of the local network management subsystem,
            then this object contains a zero value."
    ::= { ipAddressEntry 9 }



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 66]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


--
-- the Internet Address Translation table
--

inetNetToMediaTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF InetNetToMediaEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The IP Address Translation table used for mapping from IP
            addresses to physical addresses.

            The Address Translation tables contain the IP address to
            'physical' address equivalences.  Some interfaces do not use
            translation tables for determining address equivalences
            (e.g., DDN-X.25 has an algorithmic method); if all
            interfaces are of this type, then the Address Translation
            table is empty, i.e., has zero entries.

            While many protocols may be used to populate this table, ARP
            [9] and Neighbor Discovery [4] are the most likely options."
    ::= { ip 34 }

inetNetToMediaEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetNetToMediaEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "Each entry contains one IP address to `physical' address
            equivalence."
    INDEX       { inetNetToMediaIfIndex,
                  inetNetToMediaNetAddressType,
                  inetNetToMediaNetAddress }
    ::= { inetNetToMediaTable 1 }

InetNetToMediaEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        inetNetToMediaIfIndex         InterfaceIndex,
        inetNetToMediaNetAddressType  InetAddressType,
        inetNetToMediaNetAddress      InetAddress,
        inetNetToMediaPhysAddress     PhysAddress,
        inetNetToMediaLastUpdated     TimeStamp,
        inetNetToMediaType            INTEGER,
        inetNetToMediaState           INTEGER
    }

inetNetToMediaIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 67]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The index value which uniquely identifies the interface to
            which this entry is applicable.  The interface identified by
            a particular value of this index is the same interface as
            identified by the same value of the IF-MIB's ifIndex."
    ::= { inetNetToMediaEntry 1 }

inetNetToMediaNetAddressType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetAddressType
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The type of inetNetToMediaNetAddress."
    ::= { inetNetToMediaEntry 2 }

inetNetToMediaNetAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetAddress (SIZE(0..36))
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The IP Address corresponding to the media-dependent
            `physical' address."
    ::= { inetNetToMediaEntry 3 }

inetNetToMediaPhysAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     PhysAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The media-dependent `physical' address.

            As the entries in this table are typically not persistent
            when this object is written the entity SHOULD NOT save the
            change to non-volatile storage."
    ::= { inetNetToMediaEntry 4 }

inetNetToMediaLastUpdated OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The value of sysUpTime at the time this entry was last
            updated.  If this entry was updated prior to the last re-
            initialization of the local network management subsystem,
            then this object contains a zero value."
    ::= { inetNetToMediaEntry 5 }




Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 68]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


inetNetToMediaType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                other(1),        -- none of the following
                invalid(2),      -- an invalidated mapping
                dynamic(3),
                static(4),
                local(5)         -- local interface
            }
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The type of mapping.

            Setting this object to the value invalid(2) has the effect
            of invalidating the corresponding entry in the
            inetNetToMediaTable.  That is, it effectively dis-associates
            the interface identified with said entry from the mapping
            identified with said entry.  It is an implementation-
            specific matter as to whether the agent removes an
            invalidated entry from the table.  Accordingly, management
            stations must be prepared to receive tabular information
            from agents that corresponds to entries not currently in
            use.  Proper interpretation of such entries requires
            examination of the relevant inetNetToMediaType object.

            The 'dynamic(3)' type indicates that the IP address to
            physical addresses mapping has been dynamically resolved
            using e.g. IPv4 ARP or the IPv6 Neighbor Discovery protocol.

            The 'static(4)' type indicates that the mapping has been
            statically configured.  Both of these refer to entries that
            provide mappings for other entities addresses.

            The 'local(5)' type indicates that the mapping is provided
            for an entity's own interface address.

            As the entries in this table are typically not persistent
            when this object is written the entity SHOULD NOT save the
            change to non-volatile storage."
    ::= { inetNetToMediaEntry 6 }

inetNetToMediaState OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                     reachable(1), -- confirmed reachability

                     stale(2),     -- unconfirmed reachability

                     delay(3),     -- waiting for reachability



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 69]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


                                   -- confirmation before entering
                                   -- the probe state

                     probe(4),     -- actively probing

                     invalid(5),   -- an invalidated mapping

                     unknown(6),   -- state can not be determined
                                   -- for some reason.

                     incomplete(7) -- address resolution is being performed.
                    }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The Neighbor Unreachability Detection [4] state for the
            interface when the address mapping in this entry is used.
            If Neighbor Unreachability Detection is not in use (e.g. for
            IPv4), this object is always unknown(6)."
    REFERENCE "RFC2461"
    ::= { inetNetToMediaEntry 7 }



--
-- The IPv6 Scope Zone Index Table.
--

ipv6ScopeZoneIndexTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF Ipv6ScopeZoneIndexEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The table used to describe IPv6 unicast and multicast scope
            zones."
    ::= { ip 35 }

ipv6ScopeZoneIndexEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Ipv6ScopeZoneIndexEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "Each entry contains the list of scope identifiers on a given
            interface."
    INDEX { ipv6ScopeZoneIndexIfIndex }
    ::= { ipv6ScopeZoneIndexTable 1 }

Ipv6ScopeZoneIndexEntry ::= SEQUENCE {



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 70]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


        ipv6ScopeZoneIndexIfIndex            InterfaceIndex,
        ipv6ScopeZoneIndexLinkLocal          InetZoneIndex,
        ipv6ScopeZoneIndexSubnetLocal        InetZoneIndex,
        ipv6ScopeZoneIndexAdminLocal         InetZoneIndex,
        ipv6ScopeZoneIndexSiteLocal          InetZoneIndex,
        ipv6ScopeZoneIndex6                  InetZoneIndex,
        ipv6ScopeZoneIndex7                  InetZoneIndex,
        ipv6ScopeZoneIndexOrganizationLocal  InetZoneIndex,
        ipv6ScopeZoneIndex9                  InetZoneIndex,
        ipv6ScopeZoneIndexA                  InetZoneIndex,
        ipv6ScopeZoneIndexB                  InetZoneIndex,
        ipv6ScopeZoneIndexC                  InetZoneIndex,
        ipv6ScopeZoneIndexD                  InetZoneIndex
    }

ipv6ScopeZoneIndexIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The index value which uniquely identifies the interface to
            which this these scopes belong.  The interface identified by
            a particular value of this index is the same interface as
            identified by the same value of the IF-MIB's ifIndex."
    ::= { ipv6ScopeZoneIndexEntry 1 }

ipv6ScopeZoneIndexLinkLocal OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetZoneIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The zone index for the link-local scope on this interface."
    ::= { ipv6ScopeZoneIndexEntry 2 }

ipv6ScopeZoneIndexSubnetLocal OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetZoneIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The zone index for the subnet-local scope on this
            interface."
    ::= { ipv6ScopeZoneIndexEntry 3 }

ipv6ScopeZoneIndexAdminLocal OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetZoneIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 71]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


           "The zone index for the admin-local scope on this interface."
    ::= { ipv6ScopeZoneIndexEntry 4 }

ipv6ScopeZoneIndexSiteLocal OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetZoneIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The zone index for the site-local scope on this interface."
    ::= { ipv6ScopeZoneIndexEntry 5 }

ipv6ScopeZoneIndex6 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetZoneIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The zone index for scope 6 on this interface."
    ::= { ipv6ScopeZoneIndexEntry 6 }

ipv6ScopeZoneIndex7 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetZoneIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The zone index for scope 7 on this interface."
    ::= { ipv6ScopeZoneIndexEntry 7 }

ipv6ScopeZoneIndexOrganizationLocal OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetZoneIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The zone index for the organization-local scope on this
            interface."
    ::= { ipv6ScopeZoneIndexEntry 8 }

ipv6ScopeZoneIndex9 OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetZoneIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The zone index for scope 9 on this interface."
    ::= { ipv6ScopeZoneIndexEntry 9 }

ipv6ScopeZoneIndexA OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetZoneIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 72]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    DESCRIPTION
           "The zone index for scope A on this interface."
    ::= { ipv6ScopeZoneIndexEntry 10 }

ipv6ScopeZoneIndexB OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetZoneIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The zone index for scope B on this interface."
    ::= { ipv6ScopeZoneIndexEntry 11 }

ipv6ScopeZoneIndexC OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetZoneIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The zone index for scope C on this interface."
    ::= { ipv6ScopeZoneIndexEntry 12 }

ipv6ScopeZoneIndexD OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetZoneIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The zone index for scope D on this interface."
    ::= { ipv6ScopeZoneIndexEntry 13 }



--
-- The Default Router Table
-- This table simply lists the default routers, for more information
-- about routing tables see the routing MIBs
--

ipDefaultRouterTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF IpDefaultRouterEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The table used to describe the default routers known to this
            entity."
    ::= { ip 36 }

ipDefaultRouterEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpDefaultRouterEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 73]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "Each entry contains information about a default router known
            to this entity."
    INDEX {ipDefaultRouterAFType, ipDefaultRouterAddress}
    ::= { ipDefaultRouterTable 1 }

IpDefaultRouterEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        ipDefaultRouterAFType      InetAddressType,
        ipDefaultRouterAddress     InetAddress,
        ipDefaultRouterIfIndex     InterfaceIndex,
        ipDefaultRouterLifetime    Unsigned32,
        ipDefaultRouterPreference  INTEGER
    }

ipDefaultRouterAFType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetAddressType
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The address family for this row."
    ::= { ipDefaultRouterEntry 1 }

ipDefaultRouterAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetAddress (SIZE(0..36))
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The IP address of the default router represented by this
            row."
    ::= { ipDefaultRouterEntry 2 }

ipDefaultRouterIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The index value which uniquely identifies the interface by
            which the router can be reached.  The interface identified
            by a particular value of this index is the same interface as
            identified by the same value of the IF-MIB's ifIndex."
    ::= { ipDefaultRouterEntry 3 }

ipDefaultRouterLifetime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Unsigned32 (0..65535)
    UNITS       "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 74]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    DESCRIPTION
           "The length of time, in seconds, that this router will remain
            useful as a default router.  A value of zero indicates that
            it is no longer useful as a default router.  It is left to
            the implementor of the MIB as to whether a router with a
            lifetime of zero is removed from the list.

            For IPv6 this value should be extracted from the router
            advertisement messages.  "
    REFERENCE "For IPv6 RFC2462 sections 4.2 and 6.3.4"
    ::= { ipDefaultRouterEntry 4 }

ipDefaultRouterPreference OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                     medium (0),
                     high (1),
                     reserved (2),
                     low (3)
                    }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "An indication of preference given to this router as a
            default router.  Treating the value as a 2 bit signed
            integer allows for simple arithmetic comparisons.

            For IPv4 routers or IPv6 routers that are not using the
            updated router advertisement format this object is set to
            medium (0)."
    REFERENCE "draft-ietf-ipv6-router-selection-02.txt, section 2.1"
    ::= { ipDefaultRouterEntry 5 }


--
-- Configuration information for constructing router advertisements
--

ipv6RouterAdvertSpinLock OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TestAndIncr
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "An adviosry lock used to allow cooperating SNMP managers to
            coordinate their use of the set operation in creating or
            modifying rows within this table.

            In order to use this lock to coordinate the use of set
            operations managers should first retrieve



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 75]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            ipv6RouterAdvertSpinLock.  They should then determine the
            appropriate row to create or modify.  Finally they should
            issue the appropriate set command including the retrieved
            value of ipv6RouterAdvertSpinLock.  If another manager has
            altered the table in the meantime, then the value of
            ipv6RouterAdvertSpinLock will have changed and the creation
            will fail as it will be specifying an incorrect value for
            ipv6RouterAdvertSpinLock.  "
    ::= { ip 37 }

ipv6RouterAdvertTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF Ipv6RouterAdvertEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The table containing information used to construct router
            advertisements."
    ::= { ip 38 }

ipv6RouterAdvertEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Ipv6RouterAdvertEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "An entry containing information used to construct router
            advertisements.

            Information in this table is persistent and when this object
            is written the entity SHOULD save the change to non-volatile
            storage."
    INDEX { ipv6RouterAdvertIfIndex }
    ::= { ipv6RouterAdvertTable 1 }

Ipv6RouterAdvertEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        ipv6RouterAdvertIfIndex          InterfaceIndex,
        ipv6RouterAdvertSendAdverts      TruthValue,
        ipv6RouterAdvertMaxInterval      Unsigned32,
        ipv6RouterAdvertMinInterval      Unsigned32,
        ipv6RouterAdvertManagedFlag      TruthValue,
        ipv6RouterAdvertOtherConfigFlag  TruthValue,
        ipv6RouterAdvertLinkMTU          Unsigned32,
        ipv6RouterAdvertReachableTime    Unsigned32,
        ipv6RouterAdvertRetransmitTime   Unsigned32,
        ipv6RouterAdvertCurHopLimit      Unsigned32,
        ipv6RouterAdvertDefaultLifetime  Unsigned32,
        ipv6RouterAdvertRowStatus        RowStatus
    }




Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 76]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


ipv6RouterAdvertIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InterfaceIndex
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The index value which uniquely identifies the interface on
            which router advertisements constructed with this
            information will be transmitted.  The interface identified
            by a particular value of this index is the same interface as
            identified by the same value of the IF-MIB's ifIndex."
    ::= { ipv6RouterAdvertEntry 1 }

ipv6RouterAdvertSendAdverts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "A flag indicating whether or not the router sends periodic
            router advertisements and responds to router solicitations
            on this interface."
    REFERENCE "RFC2461 Section 6.2.1"
    DEFVAL { false }
    ::= { ipv6RouterAdvertEntry 2 }

ipv6RouterAdvertMaxInterval OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Unsigned32 (4..1800)
    UNITS       "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The maximum time allowed between sending unsolicited router
            advertisements from this interface."
    REFERENCE "RFC2461 Section 6.2.1"
    DEFVAL { 600 }
    ::= { ipv6RouterAdvertEntry 3 }

ipv6RouterAdvertMinInterval OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Unsigned32 (3..1350)
    UNITS       "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The minimum time allowed between sending unsolicited router
            advertisements from this interface.

            The default is 0.33 * ipv6RouterAdvertMaxInterval."
    REFERENCE "RFC2461 Section 6.2.1"
    ::= { ipv6RouterAdvertEntry 4 }



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 77]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


ipv6RouterAdvertManagedFlag OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The true/false value to be placed into the 'managed address
            configuration' flag field in router advertisements sent from
            this interface."
    REFERENCE "RFC2461 Section 6.2.1"
    DEFVAL { false }
    ::= { ipv6RouterAdvertEntry 5 }

ipv6RouterAdvertOtherConfigFlag OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The true/false value to be placed int the 'other stateful
            configuration' flag field in router advertisements sent from
            this interface."
    REFERENCE "RFC2461 Section 6.2.1"
    DEFVAL { false }
    ::= { ipv6RouterAdvertEntry 6 }

ipv6RouterAdvertLinkMTU OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The value to be placed in MTU options sent by the router on
            this interface.

            A value of zero indicates that no MTU options are sent."
    REFERENCE "RFC2461 Section 6.2.1"
    DEFVAL { 0 }
    ::= { ipv6RouterAdvertEntry 7 }

ipv6RouterAdvertReachableTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Unsigned32 (0..3600000)
    UNITS "milliseconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The value to be placed in the reachable time field in router
            advertisement messages sent from this interface.

            A value of zero in the router advertisement indicates that
            the advertisement isn't specifying a value for reachable



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 78]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            time."
    REFERENCE "RFC2461 Section 6.2.1"
    DEFVAL { 0 }
    ::= { ipv6RouterAdvertEntry 8 }

ipv6RouterAdvertRetransmitTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Unsigned32
    UNITS "milliseconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The value to be placed in the retransmit timer field in
            router advertisements sent from this interface.

            A value of zero in the router advertisement indicates that
            the advertisement isn't specifying a value for retrans
            time."
    REFERENCE "RFC2461 Section 6.2.1"
    DEFVAL { 0 }
    ::= { ipv6RouterAdvertEntry 9 }

ipv6RouterAdvertCurHopLimit OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Unsigned32 (0..255)
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The default value to be placed in the current hop limit
            field in router advertisements sent from this interface.
            The value should be set to the current diameter of the
            Internet.

            A value of zero in the router advertisement indicates that
            the advertisement isn't specifying a value for curHopLimit.

            The default should be set to the value specified in the
            'Assigned Numbers' RFC that was in effect at the time of
            implementation."
    REFERENCE "RFC2461 Section 6.2.1"
    ::= { ipv6RouterAdvertEntry 10 }

ipv6RouterAdvertDefaultLifetime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Unsigned32 (0..65535)
    UNITS "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The value to be placed in the router lifetime field of
            router advertisements sent from this interface.  This value



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 79]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            MUST be either 0 or between ipv6RouterAdvertMaxInterval and
            9000 seconds.

            A value of zero indicates that the router is not to be used
            as a default router.

            The default is 3 * ipv6RouterAdvertMaxInterval."
    REFERENCE "RFC2461 Section 6.2.1"
    ::= { ipv6RouterAdvertEntry 11 }

ipv6RouterAdvertRowStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The status of this conceputal row.

            The RowStatus TC requires that this DESCRIPTION clause
            states under which circumstances other objects in this row
            can be modified.  The value of this object has no effect on
            whether other objects in this conceptual row can be
            modified."
    ::= { ipv6RouterAdvertEntry 12 }




--
-- ICMP section
--

icmp     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { mib-2 5 }

--
-- ICMP non-message-specific counters
--

inetIcmpTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF InetIcmpEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The table of generic system-wide ICMP counters."
    ::= { icmp 27 }

inetIcmpEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetIcmpEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 80]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "A conceptual row in the inetIcmpTable."
    INDEX    { inetIcmpAFType }
    ::= { inetIcmpTable 1 }

InetIcmpEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        inetIcmpAFType     InetAddressType,
        inetIcmpInMsgs     Counter32,
        inetIcmpInErrors   Counter32,
        inetIcmpOutMsgs    Counter32,
        inetIcmpOutErrors  Counter32
    }

inetIcmpAFType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetAddressType
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The IP address family of the statistics."
    ::= { inetIcmpEntry 1 }

inetIcmpInMsgs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of ICMP messages which the entity received.
            Note that this counter includes all those counted by
            inetIcmpInErrors."
    ::= { inetIcmpEntry 2 }

inetIcmpInErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP messages which the entity received but
            determined as having ICMP-specific errors (bad ICMP
            checksums, bad length, etc.)."
    ::= { inetIcmpEntry 3 }

inetIcmpOutMsgs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of ICMP messages which the entity received.



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 81]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            Note that this counter includes all those counted by
            inetIcmpOutErrors."
    ::= { inetIcmpEntry 4 }

inetIcmpOutErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP messages which this entity did not send
            due to problems discovered within ICMP such as a lack of
            buffers.  This value should not include errors discovered
            outside the ICMP layer such as the inability of IP to route
            the resultant datagram.  In some implementations there may
            be no types of error which contribute to this counter's
            value."
    ::= { inetIcmpEntry 5 }



--
-- per-AF, per-message type ICMP counters
--


inetIcmpMsgTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF InetIcmpMsgEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The table of system-wide per-AF per-message type ICMP
            counters."
    ::= { icmp 28 }

inetIcmpMsgEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetIcmpMsgEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "A conceptual row in the inetIcmpMsgTable.

            The system should track each ICMP type value, even if that
            ICMP type is not supported by the system."
    INDEX { inetIcmpMsgAFType, inetIcmpMsgType }
    ::= { inetIcmpMsgTable 1 }

InetIcmpMsgEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        inetIcmpMsgAFType   InetAddressType,



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 82]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


        inetIcmpMsgType     Integer32,
        inetIcmpMsgInPkts   Counter32,
        inetIcmpMsgOutPkts  Counter32
    }

inetIcmpMsgAFType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InetAddressType
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The IP address family of the statistics."
    ::= { inetIcmpMsgEntry 1 }

inetIcmpMsgType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..255)
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The ICMP type field of the message type being counted by
            this row.

            Note that ICMP message types are scoped by the address
            family in use."
    REFERENCE "http://www.iana.org/assignments/icmp-parameters and
               http://www.iana.org/assignments/icmpv6-parameters"
    ::= { inetIcmpMsgEntry 2 }

inetIcmpMsgInPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of input packets for this AF and type."
    ::= { inetIcmpMsgEntry 3 }

inetIcmpMsgOutPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of output packets for this AF and type."
    ::= { inetIcmpMsgEntry 4 }



--
-- conformance information
--



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 83]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


ipMIBConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ipMIB 2 }

ipMIBCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ipMIBConformance 1 }
ipMIBGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ipMIBConformance 2 }

-- compliance statements
ipMIBCompliance2 MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The compliance statement for systems which implement IP -
            either IPv4 or IPv6."
    MODULE -- this module

    MANDATORY-GROUPS { ipSystemStatsGroup, ipAddressGroup,
                       ipNetToMediaGroup,  ipDefaultRouterGroup,
                       icmpGroup2 }

    GROUP ipSystemStatsHCOctetGroup
    DESCRIPTION
           "This group is mandatory for systems that have an aggregate
            bandwidth greater than 20MB."

    GROUP ipSystemStatsHCPacketGroup
    DESCRIPTION
           "This group is mandatory for systems that have an aggregate
            bandwidth greater than 650MB."

    GROUP ipIfStatsGroup
    DESCRIPTION
           "This group is optional for all systems."

    GROUP ipIfStatsHCOctetGroup
    DESCRIPTION
           "This group is mandatory for systems that include the
            ipIfStatsGroup and include links with bandwidths greater
            than 20MB."

    GROUP ipIfStatsHCPacketGroup
    DESCRIPTION
           "This group is mandatory for systems that include the
            ipIfStatsGroup and include links with bandwidths greater
            than 650MB."

    GROUP ipv4GeneralGroup
    DESCRIPTION
           "This group is mandatory for all systems supporting IPv4."

    GROUP ipv4IfGroup



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 84]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    DESCRIPTION
           "This group is mandatory for all systems supporting IPv4."

    GROUP ipv6GeneralGroup2
    DESCRIPTION
           "This group is mandatory for all systems supporting IPv6."

    GROUP ipv6IfGroup
    DESCRIPTION
           "This group is mandatory for all systems supporting IPv6."

    GROUP ipAddressPrefixGroup
    DESCRIPTION
           "This group is mandatory for all systems supporting IPv6."

    GROUP ipv6ScopeGroup
    DESCRIPTION
           "This group is mandatory for all systems supporting IPv6."

    GROUP ipv6RouterAdvertGroup
    DESCRIPTION
           "This group is mandatory for all IPv6 routers."

    OBJECT    ip6Forwarding
       MIN-ACCESS  read-only
    DESCRIPTION
           "An agent is not required to provide write access to this
            object"

    OBJECT    ip6DefaultHopLimit
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
    DESCRIPTION
           "An agent is not required to provide write access to this
            object"

    OBJECT    ipv4InterfaceAdminStatus
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
    DESCRIPTION
           "An agent is not required to provide write access to this
            object"


    OBJECT    ipv6InterfaceAdminStatus
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
    DESCRIPTION
           "An agent is not required to provide write access to this
            object"




Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 85]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    OBJECT    inetNetToMediaPhysAddress
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
    DESCRIPTION
           "An agent is not required to provide write or create access
            to this object"

    OBJECT    inetNetToMediaType
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
    DESCRIPTION
           "An agent is not required to provide write or create access
            to this object"

    OBJECT    ipv6RouterAdvertSpinLock
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
    DESCRIPTION
           "An agent is not required to provide write access to this
            object.  However if an agent provides write access to any of
            the other objects in the ipv6RouterAdvertGroup it SHOULD
            provide write access to this object as well."

    OBJECT    ipv6RouterAdvertSendAdverts
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
    DESCRIPTION
           "An agent is not required to provide write access to this
            object"

    OBJECT    ipv6RouterAdvertMaxInterval
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
    DESCRIPTION
           "An agent is not required to provide write access to this
            object"

    OBJECT    ipv6RouterAdvertMinInterval
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
    DESCRIPTION
           "An agent is not required to provide write access to this
            object"

    OBJECT    ipv6RouterAdvertManagedFlag
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
    DESCRIPTION
           "An agent is not required to provide write access to this
            object"

    OBJECT    ipv6RouterAdvertOtherConfigFlag
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
    DESCRIPTION
           "An agent is not required to provide write access to this



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 86]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            object"

    OBJECT    ipv6RouterAdvertLinkMTU
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
    DESCRIPTION
           "An agent is not required to provide write access to this
            object"

    OBJECT    ipv6RouterAdvertReachableTime
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
    DESCRIPTION
           "An agent is not required to provide write access to this
            object"

    OBJECT    ipv6RouterAdvertRetransmitTime
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
    DESCRIPTION
           "An agent is not required to provide write access to this
            object"

    OBJECT    ipv6RouterAdvertCurHopLimit
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
    DESCRIPTION
           "An agent is not required to provide write access to this
            object"

    OBJECT    ipv6RouterAdvertDefaultLifetime
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
    DESCRIPTION
           "An agent is not required to provide write access to this
            object"

    OBJECT    ipv6RouterAdvertRowStatus
        MIN-ACCESS  read-only
    DESCRIPTION
           "An agent is not required to provide write or create access
            to this object"

    ::= { ipMIBCompliances 2 }

-- units of conformance

ipv4GeneralGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { ipForwarding, ipDefaultTTL, ipReasmTimeout }
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The group of IPv4-specific objects for basic management of
            IPv4 entities."



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 87]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    ::= { ipMIBGroups 3 }

ipv4IfGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { ipv4InterfaceReasmMaxSize, ipv4InterfaceAdminStatus }
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The group of IPv4-specific objects for basic management of
            IPv4 interfaces."
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 4 }

ipv6GeneralGroup2 OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { ip6Forwarding, ip6DefaultHopLimit }
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The IPv6 group of objects providing for basic management of
            IPv6 entities."
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 5 }

ipv6IfGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { ipv6InterfaceReasmMaxSize,    ipv6InterfaceIdentifier,
                ipv6InterfacePhysicalAddress, ipv6InterfaceAdminStatus,
                ipv6InterfaceReachableTime,   ipv6InterfaceRetransmitTime }
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The group of IPv6-specific objects for basic management of
            IPv6 interfaces."
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 6 }

ipLastChangeGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { ipv4IfTableLastChange, ipv6IfTableLastChange,
                ipIfStatsTableLastChange }
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The last change objects associated with this MIB.  These
            objects are optional for all agents.  They SHOULD be
            implemented on agents where it is possible to determine the
            proper values.  Where it is not possible to determine the
            proper values, for example when the tables are split amongst
            several sub-agents using AgentX, the agent MUST NOT
            implement these objects to return an incorrect or static
            value."
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 7 }

ipSystemStatsGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { ipSystemStatsInReceives,      ipSystemStatsInOctets,
                ipSystemStatsInHdrErrors,     ipSystemStatsInNoRoutes,
                ipSystemStatsInAddrErrors,    ipSystemStatsInUnknownProtos,
                ipSystemStatsInTruncatedPkts, ipSystemStatsInForwDatagrams,



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 88]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


                ipSystemStatsReasmReqds,      ipSystemStatsReasmOKs,
                ipSystemStatsReasmFails,      ipSystemStatsInDiscards,
                ipSystemStatsInDelivers,      ipSystemStatsOutRequests,
                ipSystemStatsOutNoRoutes,     ipSystemStatsOutForwDatagrams,
                ipSystemStatsOutDiscards,     ipSystemStatsOutFragReqds,
                ipSystemStatsOutFragOKs,      ipSystemStatsOutFragFails,
                ipSystemStatsOutFragCreates,  ipSystemStatsOutTransmits,
                ipSystemStatsOutOctets,       ipSystemStatsInMcastPkts,
                ipSystemStatsInMcastOctets,   ipSystemStatsOutMcastPkts,
                ipSystemStatsOutMcastOctets,  ipSystemStatsInBcastPkts,
                ipSystemStatsOutBcastPkts,    ipSystemStatsDiscontinuityTime,
                ipSystemStatsRefreshRate }
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "IP system wide statistics."
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 8 }

ipSystemStatsHCOctetGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { ipSystemStatsHCInOctets,      ipSystemStatsHCOutOctets,
                ipSystemStatsHCInMcastOctets, ipSystemStatsHCOutMcastOctets }
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "IP system wide statistics for systems that may overflow the
            standard octet counters within 1 hour."
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 9 }

ipSystemStatsHCPacketGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { ipSystemStatsHCInReceives,  ipSystemStatsHCOutTransmits,
                ipSystemStatsHCInMcastPkts, ipSystemStatsHCOutMcastPkts,
                ipSystemStatsHCInBcastPkts, ipSystemStatsHCOutBcastPkts }
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "IP system wide statistics for systems that may overflow the
            standard packet counters within 1 hour."
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 10 }

ipIfStatsGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { ipIfStatsInReceives,      ipIfStatsInOctets,
                ipIfStatsInHdrErrors,     ipIfStatsInNoRoutes,
                ipIfStatsInAddrErrors,    ipIfStatsInUnknownProtos,
                ipIfStatsInTruncatedPkts, ipIfStatsInForwDatagrams,
                ipIfStatsReasmReqds,      ipIfStatsReasmOKs,
                ipIfStatsReasmFails,      ipIfStatsInDiscards,
                ipIfStatsInDelivers,      ipIfStatsOutRequests,
                ipIfStatsOutNoRoutes,     ipIfStatsOutForwDatagrams,
                ipIfStatsOutDiscards,     ipIfStatsOutFragReqds,
                ipIfStatsOutFragOKs,      ipIfStatsOutFragFails,
                ipIfStatsOutFragCreates,  ipIfStatsOutTransmits,



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 89]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


                ipIfStatsOutOctets,       ipIfStatsInMcastPkts,
                ipIfStatsInMcastOctets,   ipIfStatsOutMcastPkts,
                ipIfStatsOutMcastOctets,  ipIfStatsInBcastPkts,
                ipIfStatsOutBcastPkts,    ipIfStatsDiscontinuityTime,
                ipIfStatsRefreshRate }
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "IP per-interface statistics."
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 11 }

ipIfStatsHCOctetGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { ipIfStatsHCInOctets,      ipIfStatsHCOutOctets,
                ipIfStatsHCInMcastOctets, ipIfStatsHCOutMcastOctets }
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "IP per-interfaces statistics for systems that include
            interfaces that may overflow the may overflow the standard
            octet counters within 1 hour."
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 12 }

ipIfStatsHCPacketGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { ipIfStatsHCInReceives,  ipIfStatsHCOutTransmits,
                ipIfStatsHCInMcastPkts, ipIfStatsHCOutMcastPkts,
                ipIfStatsHCInBcastPkts, ipIfStatsHCOutBcastPkts }
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "IP per-interfaces statistics for systems that includes
            interfaces that may overflow the standard packet counters
            within 1 hour."
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 13 }

ipAddressPrefixGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { ipAddressPrefixOrigin,
                ipAddressPrefixOnLinkFlag,
                ipAddressPrefixAutonomousFlag,
                ipAddressPrefixAdvPreferredLifetime,
                ipAddressPrefixAdvValidLifetime }
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The group of objects for providing information about address
            prefixes used by this node."
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 14 }

ipAddressGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { ipAddressIfIndex, ipAddressType,
                ipAddressPrefix,  ipAddressOrigin,
                ipAddressStatus,  ipAddressCreated,
                ipAddressLastChanged }



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 90]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           ""
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 15 }

ipNetToMediaGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { inetNetToMediaPhysAddress, inetNetToMediaLastUpdated,
                inetNetToMediaType,        inetNetToMediaState }
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The group of objects for providing information about the
            mappings of network address to physical address known to
            this node."
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 16 }

ipv6ScopeGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { ipv6ScopeZoneIndexLinkLocal,     ipv6ScopeZoneIndexSubnetLocal,
                ipv6ScopeZoneIndexAdminLocal,    ipv6ScopeZoneIndexSiteLocal,
                ipv6ScopeZoneIndex6,             ipv6ScopeZoneIndex7,
                ipv6ScopeZoneIndexOrganizationLocal, ipv6ScopeZoneIndex9,
                ipv6ScopeZoneIndexA,             ipv6ScopeZoneIndexB,
                ipv6ScopeZoneIndexC,             ipv6ScopeZoneIndexD }
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The group of objects for managing IPv6 scope zones."
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 17 }


ipDefaultRouterGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { ipDefaultRouterIfIndex,   ipDefaultRouterLifetime,
                ipDefaultRouterPreference }
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The group of objects for providing information about default
            routers known to this node."
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 18 }

ipv6RouterAdvertGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { ipv6RouterAdvertSpinLock,      ipv6RouterAdvertSendAdverts,
                ipv6RouterAdvertMaxInterval,   ipv6RouterAdvertMinInterval,
                ipv6RouterAdvertManagedFlag,   ipv6RouterAdvertOtherConfigFlag,
                ipv6RouterAdvertLinkMTU,         ipv6RouterAdvertReachableTime,
                ipv6RouterAdvertRetransmitTime,  ipv6RouterAdvertCurHopLimit,
                ipv6RouterAdvertDefaultLifetime, ipv6RouterAdvertRowStatus
}
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The group of objects for controlling information advertised



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 91]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            by IPv6 routers."
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 19 }

icmpGroup2 OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   {inetIcmpInMsgs,    inetIcmpInErrors,  inetIcmpOutMsgs,
               inetIcmpOutErrors, inetIcmpMsgInPkts, inetIcmpMsgOutPkts }
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
           "The group of objects providing ICMP statistics."
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 20 }

--
-- Deprecated objects
--

ipInReceives OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of input datagrams received from
            interfaces, including those received in error."
    ::= { ip 3 }

ipInHdrErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of input datagrams discarded due to errors in
            their IPv4 headers, including bad checksums, version number
            mismatch, other format errors, time-to-live exceeded, errors
            discovered in processing their IPv4 options, etc."
    ::= { ip 4 }

ipInAddrErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of input datagrams discarded because the IPv4
            address in their IPv4 header's destination field was not a
            valid address to be received at this entity.  This count
            includes invalid addresses (e.g., 0.0.0.0) and addresses of
            unsupported Classes (e.g., Class E).  For entities which are
            not IPv4 routers and therefore do not forward datagrams,
            this counter includes datagrams discarded because the
            destination address was not a local address."



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 92]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    ::= { ip 5 }

ipForwDatagrams OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of input datagrams for which this entity was not
            their final IPv4 destination, as a result of which an
            attempt was made to find a route to forward them to that
            final destination.  In entities which do not act as IPv4
            routers, this counter will include only those packets which
            were Source-Routed via this entity, and the Source-Route
            option processing was successful."
    ::= { ip 6 }

ipInUnknownProtos OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of locally-addressed datagrams received
            successfully but discarded because of an unknown or
            unsupported protocol."
    ::= { ip 7 }

ipInDiscards OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of input IPv4 datagrams for which no problems
            were encountered to prevent their continued processing, but
            which were discarded (e.g., for lack of buffer space).  Note
            that this counter does not include any datagrams discarded
            while awaiting re-assembly."
    ::= { ip 8 }

ipInDelivers OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of input datagrams successfully delivered
            to IPv4 user-protocols (including ICMP)."
    ::= { ip 9 }

ipOutRequests OBJECT-TYPE



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 93]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of IPv4 datagrams which local IPv4 user
            protocols (including ICMP) supplied to IPv4 in requests for
            transmission.  Note that this counter does not include any
            datagrams counted in ipForwDatagrams."
    ::= { ip 10 }

ipOutDiscards OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of output IPv4 datagrams for which no problem was
            encountered to prevent their transmission to their
            destination, but which were discarded (e.g., for lack of
            buffer space).  Note that this counter would include
            datagrams counted in ipForwDatagrams if any such packets met
            this (discretionary) discard criterion."
    ::= { ip 11 }

ipOutNoRoutes OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IPv4 datagrams discarded because no route
            could be found to transmit them to their destination.  Note
            that this counter includes any packets counted in
            ipForwDatagrams which meet this `no-route' criterion.  Note
            that this includes any datagrams which a host cannot route
            because all of its default routers are down."
    ::= { ip 12 }

ipReasmReqds OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IPv4 fragments received which needed to be
            reassembled at this entity."
    ::= { ip 14 }

ipReasmOKs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 94]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IPv4 datagrams successfully re-assembled."
    ::= { ip 15 }

ipReasmFails OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of failures detected by the IPv4 re-assembly
            algorithm (for whatever reason: timed out, errors, etc).
            Note that this is not necessarily a count of discarded IPv4
            fragments since some algorithms (notably the algorithm in
            RFC 815) can lose track of the number of fragments by
            combining them as they are received."
    ::= { ip 16 }

ipFragOKs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IPv4 datagrams that have been successfully
            fragmented at this entity."
    ::= { ip 17 }

ipFragFails OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IPv4 datagrams that have been discarded
            because they needed to be fragmented at this entity but
            could not be, e.g., because their Don't Fragment flag was
            set."
    ::= { ip 18 }

ipFragCreates OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of IPv4 datagram fragments that have been
            generated as a result of fragmentation at this entity."
    ::= { ip 19 }

ipRoutingDiscards OBJECT-TYPE



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 95]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of routing entries which were chosen to be
            discarded even though they are valid.  One possible reason
            for discarding such an entry could be to free-up buffer
            space for other routing entries."
    ::= { ip 23 }

-- the deprecated IPv4 address table

ipAddrTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF IpAddrEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The table of addressing information relevant to this
            entity's IPv4 addresses."
    ::= { ip 20 }

ipAddrEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddrEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The addressing information for one of this entity's IPv4
            addresses."
    INDEX      { ipAdEntAddr }
    ::= { ipAddrTable 1 }

IpAddrEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        ipAdEntAddr          IpAddress,
        ipAdEntIfIndex       INTEGER,
        ipAdEntNetMask       IpAddress,
        ipAdEntBcastAddr     INTEGER,
        ipAdEntReasmMaxSize  INTEGER
    }


ipAdEntAddr OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The IPv4 address to which this entry's addressing
            information pertains."
    ::= { ipAddrEntry 1 }



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 96]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


ipAdEntIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The index value which uniquely identifies the interface to
            which this entry is applicable.  The interface identified by
            a particular value of this index is the same interface as
            identified by the same value of the IF-MIB's ifIndex."
    ::= { ipAddrEntry 2 }

ipAdEntNetMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The subnet mask associated with the IPv4 address of this
            entry.  The value of the mask is an IPv4 address with all
            the network bits set to 1 and all the hosts bits set to 0."
    ::= { ipAddrEntry 3 }

ipAdEntBcastAddr OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER (0..1)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The value of the least-significant bit in the IPv4 broadcast
            address used for sending datagrams on the (logical)
            interface associated with the IPv4 address of this entry.
            For example, when the Internet standard all-ones broadcast
            address is used, the value will be 1.  This value applies to
            both the subnet and network broadcasts addresses used by the
            entity on this (logical) interface."
    ::= { ipAddrEntry 4 }

ipAdEntReasmMaxSize OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER (0..65535)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The size of the largest IPv4 datagram which this entity can
            re-assemble from incoming IPv4 fragmented datagrams received
            on this interface."
    ::= { ipAddrEntry 5 }







Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 97]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


-- the deprecated IPv4 Address Translation table

-- The Address Translation tables contain the IpAddress to
-- "physical" address equivalences.  Some interfaces do not
-- use translation tables for determining address
-- equivalences (e.g., DDN-X.25 has an algorithmic method);
-- if all interfaces are of this type, then the Address
-- Translation table is empty, i.e., has zero entries.

ipNetToMediaTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF IpNetToMediaEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The IPv4 Address Translation table used for mapping from
            IPv4 addresses to physical addresses."
    ::= { ip 22 }

ipNetToMediaEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpNetToMediaEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "Each entry contains one IpAddress to `physical' address
            equivalence."
    INDEX       { ipNetToMediaIfIndex,
                  ipNetToMediaNetAddress }
    ::= { ipNetToMediaTable 1 }

IpNetToMediaEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        ipNetToMediaIfIndex      INTEGER,
        ipNetToMediaPhysAddress  PhysAddress,
        ipNetToMediaNetAddress   IpAddress,
        ipNetToMediaType         INTEGER
    }

ipNetToMediaIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The interface on which this entry's equivalence is
            effective.  The interface identified by a particular value
            of this index is the same interface as identified by the
            same value of the IF-MIB's ifIndex."
    ::= { ipNetToMediaEntry 1 }

ipNetToMediaPhysAddress OBJECT-TYPE



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 98]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    SYNTAX     PhysAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The media-dependent `physical' address.  This object should
            return 0 when this entry is in the 'incomplete' state.

            As the entries in this table are typically not persistent
            when this object is written the entity should not save the
            change to non-volatile storage.  Note: a stronger
            requirement is not used because this object was previously
            defined."
    ::= { ipNetToMediaEntry 2 }

ipNetToMediaNetAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The IpAddress corresponding to the media-dependent
            `physical' address."
    ::= { ipNetToMediaEntry 3 }

ipNetToMediaType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                other(1),        -- none of the following
                invalid(2),      -- an invalidated mapping
                dynamic(3),
                static(4)
            }
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The type of mapping.

            Setting this object to the value invalid(2) has the effect
            of invalidating the corresponding entry in the
            ipNetToMediaTable.  That is, it effectively dis-associates
            the interface identified with said entry from the mapping
            identified with said entry.  It is an implementation-
            specific matter as to whether the agent removes an
            invalidated entry from the table.  Accordingly, management
            stations must be prepared to receive tabular information
            from agents that corresponds to entries not currently in
            use.  Proper interpretation of such entries requires
            examination of the relevant ipNetToMediaType object.

            As the entries in this table are typically not persistent



Routhier, Editor                                   Section 5.  [Page 99]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


            when this object is written the entity should not save the
            change to non-volatile storage.  Note: a stronger
            requirement is not used because this object was previously
            defined."
    ::= { ipNetToMediaEntry 4 }




-- the deprecated ICMP group

icmpInMsgs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of ICMP messages which the entity received.
            Note that this counter includes all those counted by
            icmpInErrors."
    ::= { icmp 1 }

icmpInErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP messages which the entity received but
            determined as having ICMP-specific errors (bad ICMP
            checksums, bad length, etc.)."
    ::= { icmp 2 }

icmpInDestUnreachs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Destination Unreachable messages
            received."
    ::= { icmp 3 }

icmpInTimeExcds OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Time Exceeded messages received."
    ::= { icmp 4 }




Routhier, Editor                                  Section 5.  [Page 100]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


icmpInParmProbs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Parameter Problem messages received."
    ::= { icmp 5 }

icmpInSrcQuenchs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Source Quench messages received."
    ::= { icmp 6 }

icmpInRedirects OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Redirect messages received."
    ::= { icmp 7 }

icmpInEchos OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Echo (request) messages received."
    ::= { icmp 8 }

icmpInEchoReps OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Echo Reply messages received."
    ::= { icmp 9 }

icmpInTimestamps OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Timestamp (request) messages received."
    ::= { icmp 10 }




Routhier, Editor                                  Section 5.  [Page 101]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


icmpInTimestampReps OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Timestamp Reply messages received."
    ::= { icmp 11 }

icmpInAddrMasks OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Address Mask Request messages received."
    ::= { icmp 12 }

icmpInAddrMaskReps OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Address Mask Reply messages received."
    ::= { icmp 13 }

icmpOutMsgs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The total number of ICMP messages which this entity
            attempted to send.  Note that this counter includes all
            those counted by icmpOutErrors."
    ::= { icmp 14 }

icmpOutErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP messages which this entity did not send
            due to problems discovered within ICMP such as a lack of
            buffers.  This value should not include errors discovered
            outside the ICMP layer such as the inability of IP to route
            the resultant datagram.  In some implementations there may
            be no types of error which contribute to this counter's
            value."
    ::= { icmp 15 }




Routhier, Editor                                  Section 5.  [Page 102]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


icmpOutDestUnreachs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Destination Unreachable messages sent."
    ::= { icmp 16 }

icmpOutTimeExcds OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Time Exceeded messages sent."
    ::= { icmp 17 }

icmpOutParmProbs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Parameter Problem messages sent."
    ::= { icmp 18 }

icmpOutSrcQuenchs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Source Quench messages sent."
    ::= { icmp 19 }

icmpOutRedirects OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Redirect messages sent.  For a host, this
            object will always be zero, since hosts do not send
            redirects."
    ::= { icmp 20 }

icmpOutEchos OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Echo (request) messages sent."



Routhier, Editor                                  Section 5.  [Page 103]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


    ::= { icmp 21 }

icmpOutEchoReps OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Echo Reply messages sent."
    ::= { icmp 22 }

icmpOutTimestamps OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Timestamp (request) messages sent."
    ::= { icmp 23 }

icmpOutTimestampReps OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Timestamp Reply messages sent."
    ::= { icmp 24 }

icmpOutAddrMasks OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Address Mask Request messages sent."
    ::= { icmp 25 }

icmpOutAddrMaskReps OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The number of ICMP Address Mask Reply messages sent."
    ::= { icmp 26 }

-- deprecated conformance information
-- deprecated compliance statements

ipMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION



Routhier, Editor                                  Section 5.  [Page 104]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


           "The compliance statement for systems which implement only
            IPv4.  For version-independence, this compliance statement
            is deprecated in favor of ipMIBCompliance2."
    MODULE  -- this module
        MANDATORY-GROUPS { ipGroup,
                           icmpGroup }
    ::= { ipMIBCompliances 1 }

-- deprecated units of conformance

ipGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { ipForwarding,           ipDefaultTTL,     ipInReceives,
                ipInHdrErrors,          ipInAddrErrors,   ipForwDatagrams,
                ipInUnknownProtos,      ipInDiscards,     ipInDelivers,
                ipOutRequests,          ipOutDiscards,    ipOutNoRoutes,
                ipReasmTimeout,         ipReasmReqds,     ipReasmOKs,
                ipReasmFails,           ipFragOKs,        ipFragFails,
                ipFragCreates,          ipAdEntAddr,      ipAdEntIfIndex,
                ipAdEntNetMask,         ipAdEntBcastAddr, ipAdEntReasmMaxSize,
                ipNetToMediaIfIndex,    ipNetToMediaPhysAddress,
                ipNetToMediaNetAddress, ipNetToMediaType, ipRoutingDiscards }
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The ip group of objects providing for basic management of IP
            entities, exclusive of the management of IP routes."
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 1 }

icmpGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS   { icmpInMsgs,          icmpInErrors,
                icmpInDestUnreachs,  icmpInTimeExcds,
                icmpInParmProbs,     icmpInSrcQuenchs,
                icmpInRedirects,     icmpInEchos,
                icmpInEchoReps,      icmpInTimestamps,
                icmpInTimestampReps, icmpInAddrMasks,
                icmpInAddrMaskReps,  icmpOutMsgs,
                icmpOutErrors,       icmpOutDestUnreachs,
                icmpOutTimeExcds,    icmpOutParmProbs,
                icmpOutSrcQuenchs,   icmpOutRedirects,
                icmpOutEchos,        icmpOutEchoReps,
                icmpOutTimestamps,   icmpOutTimestampReps,
                icmpOutAddrMasks,    icmpOutAddrMaskReps }
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
           "The icmp group of objects providing ICMP statistics."
    ::= { ipMIBGroups 2 }

END




Routhier, Editor                                  Section 5.  [Page 105]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


6.  Open Issues / To Do

The MIB has been passed through a MIB checker (smilint and smicng) but
will need another pass to ensure no errors crept in during editing.

I have now added some lastChange objects to the ipv4 and ipv6 interface
tables and the ipifstats table.  Currently I have added these object to
an optional conformance group, but made them a SHOULD for agents with
the proper information.


7.  Acknowledgments

This document contains objects modified from RFC 1213 [10], RFC 2011
[11], RFC 2465 [12], and RFC 2466 [13].

8.  References

8.1.  Normative


[1] McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J., Rose, M.,
     and S. Waldbusser, "Structure of Management Information Version 2
     (SMIv2)", STD 58, RFC 2578, April 1999.

[2] McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J., Rose, M.,
     and S. Waldbusser, "Textual Conventions for SMIv2", STD 58, RFC
     2579, April 1999.

[3] McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J., Rose, M.,
     and S. Waldbusser, "Conformance Statements for SMIv2", STD 58, RFC
     2580, April 1999.

[4] Narten, T., E.  Nordmark and W. Simpson, "Neighbor Discovery for IP
     Version 6 (IPv6)", RFC 2461, December 1998.

[5] Thomson, S., T. Narten, "IPv6 Stateless Address Autoconfiguration",
     RFC 2462, December 1998.

[6] McCloghrie, K., F. Kastenholz, "The Interfaces Group MIB", RFC 2863,
     June 2000.

[7] Daniele, M., B. Haberman, S. Routhier, J. Schoenwaelder, "Textual
     Conventions for Internet Network Addresses", RFC 3291 May 2002.
     (Placeholder for updated version including InetZoneIndex)






Routhier, Editor                                Section 8.1.  [Page 106]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


8.2.  Informative


[8] Case, J., Mundy, R., Partain, D. and B. Stewart, "Introduction and
     Applicability Statements for Internet-Standard Management
     Framework", RFC 3410, December 2002.

[9] D. Plummer, "An Ethernet Address Resolution Protocol", RFC0826,
     November 1982.

[10] Rose, M. and K. McCloghrie, "Management Information Base for
     Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets", RFC 1213, March
     1991.

[11] K. McCloghrie, "SNMPv2 Management Information Base for the Internet
     Protocol using SMIv2", RFC 2011, November 1996.

[12] Haskin, D. and S. Onishi, "Management Information Base for IP
     Version 6: Textual Conventions and General Group", RFC 2465,
     December 1998.

[13] Haskin, D. and S. Onishi, "Management Information Base for IP
     Version 6: ICMPv6 Group", RFC 2466, December 1998.

[14] Narten, T. and R. Draves, "Privacy Extensions for Stateless Address
     Autoconfiguration in IPv6", RFC 3041, January 2001.


9.  Security Considerations

There are a number of management objects defined in this MIB module with
a MAX-ACCESS clause of read-write and/or read-create.  Such objects may
be considered sensitive or vulnerable in some network environments.  The
support for SET operations in a non-secure environment without proper
protection can have a negative effect on network operations.  These are
the tables and objects and their sensitivity/vulnerability:


     ipForwarding and ip6Forwarding - these objects allow a manager to
     enable or disable the routing functions on the entity.  By
     disabling the routing functions an attacker would possibly be able
     to deny service to users.  By enabling the routing functions an
     attacker could open open an conduit into an area.  This might
     result in the area providing transit for packets it shouldn't or
     allow the attacker access to the area bypassing security
     safeguards.





Routhier, Editor                                  Section 9.  [Page 107]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


     ipDefaultTTL and ip6DefaultHopLimit - these objects allow a manager
     to determine the diameter of the valid area for a packet.  By
     decreasing the value of these objects an attacker could cause
     packets to be discarded before reaching their destinations.


     ipv4InterfaceAdminStatus and ipv6InterfaceAdminStatus - these
     objects allow a manager to enable or disable IPv4 and IPv6 on a
     specific interface.  By enabling a protocol on an interface an
     attacker might be able to create an unsecured path into a node (or
     through it if routing is also enabled).  By disabling a protocol on
     an interface an attacker might be able to force packets to be
     routed through some other interface or deny access to some or all
     of the network via that protocol.

     ipv6RouterAdvertTable - the objects in this table specify the
     information that a router should propagate in its routing
     advertisement messages.  By modifying this information an attacker
     can interfere with the auto-configuration of all hosts on the link.
     Most modifications to this table will result in a denial of service
     to some or all hosts on the link.  However two objects,
     ipv6RouterAdvertManagedFlag and ipv6RouterAdvertOtherConfigFlag,
     indicate if a host should acquire configuration information from
     some other source.  By enabling these an attacker might be able to
     cause a host to retrieve its configuration information from a
     compromised source.

     inetNetToMediaPhysAddress and inetNetToMediaType - these objects
     specify information used to translate a network (IP) address into a
     media dependent address.  By modifying these objects an attacker
     could disable communication with a node or divert messages from one
     node to another.  However the attacker may be able to carry out a
     similar attack by simply responding to the ARP or ND requests made
     by the target node.


Some of the readable objects in this MIB module (i.e., objects with a
MAX-ACCESS other than not-accessible) may be considered sensitive or
vulnerable in some network environments.  It is thus important to
control even GET access to these objects and possibly to even encrypt
the values of these objects when sending them over the network via SNMP.
These are the tables and objects and their sensitivity/vulnerability:


     Essentially all of the objects in this MIB could be considered
     sensitive as they report on the status of the IP modules within a
     system.  However the ipSystemStatsTable, ipIfStatsTable and
     ipAddressTable are likely to be of most interest to an attacker.



Routhier, Editor                                  Section 9.  [Page 108]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


     The statistics tables supply information about the quantity and
     type of traffic this node is processing and, especially for transit
     providers, may be considered sensitive.  The address table provides
     a convienent list of all address in use by this node.  Each address
     in isolation is unremarkable however the total list would allow an
     attacker to correlate otherwise unrelated traffic.  For example an
     attacker might be able to correlate the a RFC 3041 [14] private
     address with known public addresses thus circumventing the
     intentions of RFC 3041.


SNMP versions prior to SNMPv3 did not include adequate security.  Even
if the network itself is secure (for example by using IPSec), even then,
there is no control as to who on the secure network is allowed to access
and GET/SET (read/change/create/delete) the objects in this MIB module.

It is RECOMMENDED that implementers consider the security features as
provided by the SNMPv3 framework (see [8], section 8), including full
support for the SNMPv3 cryptographic mechanisms (for authentication and
privacy).

Further, deployment of SNMP versions prior to SNMPv3 is NOT RECOMMENDED.
Instead, it is RECOMMENDED to deploy SNMPv3 and to enable cryptographic
security.  It is then a customer/operator responsibility to ensure that
the SNMP entity giving access to an instance of this MIB module, is
properly configured to give access to the objects only to those
principals (users) that have legitimate rights to indeed GET or SET
(change/create/delete) them.


10.  Editor's Contact Information

Shawn A. Routhier
Wind River
500 Wind River Way
Alameda, CA 94501
USA

Email: sar@epilogue.com



11.  Authors








Routhier, Editor                                 Section 11.  [Page 109]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


This document was written by the IPv6 MIB revision design team:

Bill Fenner, AT&T Labs -- Research
Email: fenner@research.att.com

Brian Haberman
Email: bkhabs@nc.rr.com

Shawn A. Routhier, Wind River
Email: sar@epilogue.com

Dave Thaler, Microsoft
Email: dthaler@windows.microsoft

This document updates parts of the MIBs from several other documents.
RFC2011 is the previous update to the IP MIB.  RFC2465 and RFC2466 are
the first versions specifying IPv6 addresses and information.

RFC2011:
Keith McCloghrie, Cisco Systems (Editor)

RFC2465 and RFC2466:
Dimitry Haskin, Bay Networks

Steve Onishi, Bay Networks



12.  Acknowledgments

Reviews and other contributions were made by:

Dario Acornero, Cisco

Mike MacFaden, Riverstone

Juergen Schoenwalder, TU Braunschweig

Margaret Wasserman, Wind River



13.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2003). All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or



Routhier, Editor                                 Section 13.  [Page 110]

INTERNET-DRAFT            Expires: August 2003             February 2003


assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works. However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS
IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK
FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT
INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.































Routhier, Editor                                 Section 13.  [Page 111]
