
Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


	 Definitions of	Managed	Objects	for Applications

			  April	30, 1996


	      <draft-ietf-applmib-sysapplmib-02.txt>


			 Jonathan Saperia
			 BGS Systems Inc.
			 saperia@bgs.com

			 Cheryl	Krupczak
		    Empire Technologies, Inc.
		      cheryl@empiretech.com

			    Rick Sturm
	Enterprise Management Professional Services, Inc.
		       sturm@emi-summit.com

			Jonathan Weinstock
			     Bellcore
		jonathan.weinstock@cc.bellcore.com






		       Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its
areas, and its working groups.	Note that other	groups may also
distribute working documents as	Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts	are draft documents valid for a	maximum	of six
months and may be updated, replaced, or	obsoleted by other
documents at any time.	It is inappropriate to use Internet-
Drafts as reference material or	to cite	them other than	as ``work
in progress.''

To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check
the ``1id-abstracts.txt'' listing contained in the Internet-
Drafts Shadow Directories on ds.internic.net (US East Coast),
nic.nordu.net (Europe),	ftp.isi.edu (US	West Coast), or
munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim).








Expires	November 30, 1996				  [Page	1]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


1.  Abstract

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management
Information Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols
in the Internet	community. In particular, it describes a basic set
of managed objects for fault, configuration and	performance
management of applications.

This memo does not specify a standard for the Internet community.














































Expires	November 30, 1996				  [Page	2]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


2.  The	SNMPv2 Network Management Framework

The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework	consists of four major
components.  They are:

o    STD 17, RFC 1213 [1] defines MIB-II, the core set of managed
     objects for the Internet suite of protocols.

o    RFC 1902 Structure	of Management Information for Version 2	of
     the Simple	Network	Management Protocol (SNMPv2)

o    RFC 1903 Textual Conventions for Version 2	of the Simple
     Network Management	Protocol (SNMPv2)

o    RFC 1904 Conformance Statements for Version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management	Protocol (SNMPv2)

o    RFC 1905 Protocol Operations for Version 2	of the Simple
     Network Management	Protocol (SNMPv2)

o    RFC 1906 Transport	Mappings for Version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management	Protocol (SNMPv2)

o    RFC 1907 Management Information Base for Version 2	of the
     Simple Network Management Protocol	(SNMPv2)

o    RFC 1908 Coexistence between Version 1 and	Version	2 of the
     Internet-standard Network Management Framework


The Framework permits new objects to be	defined	for the	purpose	of
experimentation	and evaluation.


2.1.  Object Definitions

Managed	objects	are accessed via a virtual information store,
termed the Management Information Base or MIB. Objects in the MIB
are defined using the subset of	Abstract Syntax	Notation One
(ASN.1)	defined	in the SMI[1]. In particular, each object type is
named by an OBJECT IDENTIFIER, an administratively assigned name.
The object type	together with an object	instance serves	to
uniquely identify a specific instantiation of the object. For
human convenience, we often use	a textual string, termed the
object descriptor, to refer to the object type.










Expires	November 30, 1996				  [Page	3]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


3.  Overview

The primary purpose of computing technologies is the execution of
application software. These applications, typically specialized
collections of executables, files and interprocess communications
exist to solve business, scientific or other "problems". The
fault, performance monitoring and control of application software
across it's life on a host computer is of great	economic
importance. For	the purposes of	our work, we define applications
as one or more units of	executable code	and other resources,
installed on a single host system that a manager may think of as a
single object for management purposes.


The information	described by the objects in the	System Application
MIB support configuration, fault and performance management of
some of	the basic attributes of	application software.  The
information allows for the description of applications as a
collection of executables, and files installed and executing on	a
host computer.

This draft is concerned	primarily with and models application
information resident on	a host computer	which is discoverable in a
rudimentary fashion by todays agent and	operating systems
technologies. This approach was	taken to insure	ease and speed of
implementation,	while allowing room for	future growth.

We believe that	this work will be followed by the subsequent
modeling and specification of management information accessible
via application	instrumentation. These new "appl MIB" objects will
participate as multiple	Generic	Application MIB	instances within
each host platform.























Expires	November 30, 1996				  [Page	4]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


4.  The	Structure of the MIB

The System Application MIB structure reflects the notion of
applications which have	been installed on a system and which may
contain	many components	some of	which are executables, others are
not.

The objects are	arranged into the following groups:

    -  System Application Installed Group

    -  System Application Run Group

The System Application Installed group consists	of two tables. The
first, the sysApplInstalledTable exists	to capture what
applications are installed on a	particular host. The second, the
sysApplCfgElmTable, provides information regarding the executables
and non	executable files which collectively compose the
application. This information is discoverable provided that
certain	conventions are	followed by administrators during the
installation of	host application software.  Through these two
tables administrators will be able to determine	which applications
have been installed on a system	and what their constituent
components are.

The System Application Run Group: This group consists of two pairs
of tables (four	tales) and seven scalars.

The first set of tables	contains the sysApplRunTable and the
SysApplPastRun Table.  The sysApplRunTable contains the
application instances which are	currently running on the host. An
entry is created in this table for each	instance on an application
when is	it started.  The sysApplPastRunTable contains table rows
corresponding to instances of applications which have previously
executed on the	host. Entries to this table are	made when an
application has	terminated. Coincident with this, the table entry
which represents the application is removed from the
SysApplRunTable. Table rows are	removed	from the
SysApplPastRunTable according to values	set in two scalars,
sysApplPastRunTableSizeLimit and sysApplPastRunTableTimeLimit.
These objects specify the maximum table	size of	the
sysApplPastRunTable as well as the maximum age of its table
entries.

A parallel structure exists for	the running processes associated
with an	application.

The sysApplElmtRunTable	contains the process instances which are
currently running on the host.	An entry is created in this table
for each instance on a process at the time it is started.  The
sysApplElmtPastRunTable	contains table rows corresponding to
instances of processes which have previously executed on the host.
Entries	to this	table are made when the	process	has terminated.


Expires	November 30, 1996				  [Page	5]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


Coincident with	this, the table	entry which represents the process
is removed from	the SysApplElmtRunTable. Table rows are	removed
from the SysApplElmtPastRunTable according to values set in two
scalars, sysApplElmtPastRunTableSizeLimit and
sysApplElmtPastRunTableTimeLimit.  These objects specify the
maximum	table size of the sysApplElmtPastRunTable as well as the
maximum	age of its table entries.
















































Expires	November 30, 1996				  [Page	6]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


5.  Definitions

SYSAPPL-MIB DEFINITIONS	::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE,
    Integer32, TimeTicks, Counter32
	FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    DisplayString, DateAndTime
	FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP
	FROM SNMPv2-CONF
    mib-2 FROM RFC1213-MIB;



-- System Application MIB

sysApplMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9604300000Z"
    ORGANIZATION "IETF Applications MIB	Working	Group"
    CONTACT-INFO
	  "Cheryl Krupczak (WG Advisor)
	   Postal: Empire Technologies,	Inc.
	   541 Tenth Street NW
	   Suite 169
	   Atlanta, GA 30318
	   USA
	   Phone: (770)	384-0184
	   Email: cheryl@empiretech.com

	   Jon Saperia (WG Co-Chair)
	   Postal:  BGS	Systems, Inc.
	   128 Technology Center
	   Waltham, MA 02254-9111
	   USA
	   Phone: (617)	891-0000 ext 340
	   Email: saperia@bgs.com

	   Rick	Sturm (WG Co-Chair)
	   Postal: Enterprise Management Profession Services, Inc.
	   345 Norton Street
	   Boulder, CO 80303
	   USA
	   Phone:(303)543-7304
	   Email: sturm.emi-summit.com

	   Jonathan A. Weinstock (WG Editor)
	   Postal:  Bellcore
	   444 Hoes Lane
	   Piscataway, NJ 08855
	   USA
	   Phone: (908)	699-5862


Expires	November 30, 1996				  [Page	7]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


	   Email: jonathan.weinstock@cc.bellcore.com"
    DESCRIPTION
	"The MIB module	defines	an application on a system platform"
    ::=	{ mib-2	9999  }

sysApplOBJ		 OBJECT	IDENTIFIER ::= { sysApplMIB 1 }
sysApplInstalled	 OBJECT	IDENTIFIER ::= { sysApplOBJ 1 }
sysApplRun		 OBJECT	IDENTIFIER ::= { sysApplOBJ 2 }
sysApplNotifications	 OBJECT	IDENTIFIER ::= { sysApplMIB 2 }
sysApplConformance	 OBJECT	IDENTIFIER ::= { sysApplMIB 3 }




-- textual conventions

    Kbytes ::= Integer32
--
-- This	data type is intended as a shorthand for the representation
-- of kilobytes


-- The system installed	applications group provides information
-- about packages and all of their constituent elements	such as
-- executable and configuration	files found on a system.

-- The system installed	applications table provides information
-- software packages loaded on a system.  These	packages can be
-- a combination of many different files.  Agents should provide
-- index to entry consistency across agent reboots.

sysApplInstalledTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SEQUENCE OF SysApplInstalledEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The table describing the software installed on	a
	platform."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalled 1 }

sysApplInstalledEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SysApplInstalledEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The logical row describing installed software
	components."
    INDEX    { sysApplInstalledIndex }
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalledTable	1 }

SysApplInstalledEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    sysApplInstalledIndex		Integer32,
    sysApplInstalledManufacturer	DisplayString,


Expires	November 30, 1996				  [Page	8]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


    sysApplInstalledProductName		DisplayString,
    sysApplInstalledVersion		DisplayString,
    sysApplInstalledSerialNumber	DisplayString,
    sysApplInstalledDate		DateAndTime,
    sysApplInstalledLocation		DisplayString
}

sysApplInstalledIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32 (1..'7fffffff'h)
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"An arbitrary, small integer used only for
	indexing purposes. Generally monotonically
	increasing from	1 as new applications are installed."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalledEntry	1 }

sysApplInstalledManufacturer OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The Manufacturer of the software application."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalledEntry	2 }

sysApplInstalledProductName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The name provided to the software application by the
	Manufacturer."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalledEntry	3 }

sysApplInstalledVersion	OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The version of	the product assigned by	the
	manufacturer of	the software."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalledEntry	4 }

sysApplInstalledSerialNumber OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The serial number of the software assigned by the
	manufacturer."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalledEntry	5 }

sysApplInstalledDate OBJECT-TYPE


Expires	November 30, 1996				  [Page	9]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


    SYNTAX	DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The date and time this	software application was installed on
	the host."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalledEntry	6 }

sysApplInstalledLocation OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The path	name where the executables are stored for the
      application."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalledEntry	7 }


-- The sysApplCfgElem Table details the	elements which comprise	the
-- application defined in the sysApplInstalled Table.  Each entry in
-- this	table has an index to the sysApplInstalled table. As a result
-- there may be	many entries in	this table for each instance in	the
-- sysApplInstalled Table.

sysApplCfgElmtTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SEQUENCE OF SysApplCfgElmtEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The table describing the application executables and non
	executables installed on a platform."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalled 2 }

sysApplCfgElmtEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SysApplCfgElmtEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The logical row describing installed software executables and
	non executable components of an	application."
    INDEX    {sysApplInstalledIndex,
		sysApplCfgElmtIndex}
    ::=	{ sysApplCfgElmtTable 1	}

SysApplCfgElmtEntry ::=	SEQUENCE {
    sysApplCfgElmtIndex			Integer32,
    sysApplCfgElmtName			DisplayString,
    sysApplCfgElmtType			INTEGER,
    sysApplCfgElmtDate			DateAndTime,
    sysApplCfgElmtPath			DisplayString,
    sysApplCfgElmtSize			Kbytes,
    sysApplCfgElmtRole			BIT STRING
}


Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 10]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


sysApplCfgElmtIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32 (1..'7fffffff'h)
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"An arbitrary, small integer used for indexing purposes.
	 Generally monotonically increasing from 1 as new elements
	 are installed in the system."
    ::=	{ sysApplCfgElmtEntry 1	}


sysApplCfgElmtName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The name of this element which	is contained in	the
	application."
    ::=	{ sysApplCfgElmtEntry 2	}

sysApplCfgElmtType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	INTEGER	{
		executable(1),
		nonexecutable(2)
		}
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The type of element that is part of the installed
	application."
    ::=	{ sysApplCfgElmtEntry 3	}

sysApplCfgElmtDate OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The date and time that	this component was installed on	the
	system."
    ::=	{ sysApplCfgElmtEntry 4	}

sysApplCfgElmtPath OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The full path name of this file."
    ::=	{ sysApplCfgElmtEntry 5}

sysApplCfgElmtSize OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Kbytes
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current


Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 11]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


    DESCRIPTION
      "The size	of the file in Kbytes."
    ::=	{ sysApplCfgElmtEntry 6	}


sysApplCfgElmtRole  OBJECT-TYPE
     SYNTAX	  BIT STRING   {
		    executable(0), -- An application may have one or
			    -- more executable elements.  The rest of the bits
			    -- have no meaning if the element is not executable.
		    exclusive(1), -- Only one copy of an exclusive element
			    -- may be running.
		    interesting(2), -- An application may have zero or more
			    -- interesting elements. Only tables, but all
			    -- executable show in the running tables.
		    required(3), -- An application may have zero or more
			    -- required	elements. At least one must  be	running
			    -- to indicate that	the application	is running
			    -- and healthy.
		    dependent(4) } -- An application may have zero or more
			    -- dependent elements. Dependent elements may
			    -- not be running unless required elements
			    -- are.
    MAX-ACCESS	read-write
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"An operator assigned value used in the	determination of
	application status. This value is used by the agent to determine
	both the mapping of started processes to the initiation
	of an application, as well as to allow for a determination of
	application health."
    ::=	{ sysApplCfgElmtEntry 7	}

-- The sysApplRun Group	contains information about applications
-- are currently running or have run on	the host.
-- The sysApplRunTable contains	entries	for applications currently
-- executing on	the platform.

sysApplRunTable	OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SEQUENCE OF SysApplRunEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The table describes the applications which are	executing
	on the host.  Each time	an application is run
	an entry is created in this table. When	an application ends,
	the entry is removed from this table and placed	in the
	SysApplPastRunTable."
    ::=	{ sysApplRun 1 }

sysApplRunEntry	OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SysApplRunEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible


Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 12]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The logical row describing the	applications which are
	currently running on this host.	 Entries
	remain in this table until the applications end	and
	are then added to the sysApplPastRunTable."
    INDEX    { sysApplRunIndex }
    ::=	{ sysApplRunTable   1 }

SysApplRunEntry	::= SEQUENCE {
    sysApplRunIndex			    Integer32,
    sysApplRunInstalledIndex		    Integer32,
    sysApplRunLastStarted		    DateAndTime,
    sysApplRunCurrentState		    INTEGER,
    sysApplRunEnded			    DateAndTime
}

sysApplRunIndex	OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32 (1..'7fffffff'h)
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The index for this table. An arbitrary	small integer used only
	for indexing purposes. Generally monotonically increasing
	from 1 as new applications are started on the host."
    ::=	{ sysApplRunEntry 1 }

sysApplRunInstalledIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The pointer to the installed application	table. An arbitrary
      small integer used only for indexing purposes."
    ::=	{ sysApplRunEntry 2 }


sysApplRunLastStarted OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The date and time that	the application	was last started."
    ::=	{ sysApplRunEntry 3 }

sysApplRunCurrentState OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	INTEGER	{
		running	(1),
		runnable (2), -- waiting for resource (CPU, etc.)
		waiting	(3),  -- waiting for event
		exiting	(4),  -- other invalid state
		other (5)
		}


Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 13]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The current state of the running application."
    ::=	{ sysApplRunEntry 4 }

sysApplRunEnded	OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The DateAndTime the application exited."
    ::=	{ sysApplRunEntry 5 }


-- The sysApplPastRunTable contains entries for	applications
-- previously run on the platform. Entries are added to	this table
-- when	an application becomes inactive. Entries are remove for	this
-- table when either the table size reaches a maximum as determined by
-- the sysApplRunTableSizeLimit	or when	an entry has aged to exceed a
-- time	limit as set be	sysApplPastRunTimeLimit. When table size is exceeded
-- the oldest entry as determined by the smallest sysApplPastRunIndex,
-- will	be removed.

sysApplPastRunTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SEQUENCE OF SysApplPastRunEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The table describes the applications
	have executed on the host.  Each time an application is	terminated
	an entry is created in this table.  Table size is controlled
	by the sysApplPastRunTableSizeLimit object and the
	sysApplPastRunTimeLimit."
    ::=	{ sysApplRun 2 }

sysApplPastRunEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SysApplPastRunEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The logical row describing the	applications which are
	have run on this host.	Entries
	remain in this table until they	are rolled out according
	to the sysApplPastRunTableSizeLimit object or the
	sysApplPastRunTimeLimit	object."
    INDEX    { sysApplPastRunIndex }
    ::=	{ sysApplPastRunTable	1 }

SysApplPastRunEntry ::=	SEQUENCE {
    sysApplPastRunIndex			    Integer32,
    sysApplPastRunInstalledIndex	    Integer32,
    sysApplPastRunLastStarted		    DateAndTime,


Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 14]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


    sysApplPastRunCurrentState		    INTEGER,
    sysApplPastRunEnded			    DateAndTime
}

sysApplPastRunIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32 (1..'7fffffff'h)
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The index for this table. An arbitrary	small integer
	matching the value of the removed sysApplRunIndex
	corresponding to this row."
    ::=	{ sysApplPastRunEntry 1	}

sysApplPastRunInstalledIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The pointer to the installed application	table. An arbitrary
      small integer used only for indexing purposes."
    ::=	{ sysApplPastRunEntry 2	}


sysApplPastRunLastStarted OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The date and time that	the application	was  started."
    ::=	{ sysApplPastRunEntry 3	}

sysApplPastRunCurrentState OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	INTEGER	{
		complete (1), -- normal	exit at	sysApplRunEnded
		failed (2),   -- abnormal exit
		other (3)
		}
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The
      exit state."
    ::=	{ sysApplPastRunEntry 4	}

sysApplPastRunEnded OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The DateAndTime the application exited."
    ::=	{ sysApplPastRunEntry 5	}



Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 15]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


-- The sysApplElmtRun Table consists of	entries	for elements of
-- application which are running on the	host
-- system.

sysApplElmtRunTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SEQUENCE OF SysApplElmtRunEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The table describes the processes which are executing
	 on the	host as	part of	an application.	It is
	possible to have multiple entries in this table	for each
	application. Entries are removed from this table when the
	process	terminates."
    ::=	{ sysApplRun 3 }

sysApplElmtRunEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SysApplElmtRunEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The logical row describing the	processes which	are
	currently running on this host as part of an
	application.  Entries remain in	this table until they
	are rolled out	and moved to the sysAppElmtPastRunTable
	when the terminate."
    INDEX    { sysApplRunIndex,sysApplElmtRunIndex }
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunTable	1 }

SysApplElmtRunEntry ::=	SEQUENCE {
    sysApplElmtRunIndex		    Integer32,
    sysApplElmtRunElemID	    Integer32,
    sysApplElmtRunHRID		    Integer32,
    sysApplElmtRunTimeStarted	    DateAndTime,
    sysApplElmtRunTimeEnded	    DateAndTime,
    sysApplElmtRunState		    INTEGER,
    sysApplElmtRunName		    DisplayString,
    sysApplElmtRunParameters	    DisplayString,
    sysApplElmtRunType		    INTEGER,
    sysApplElmtRunCPU		    TimeTicks,
    sysApplElmtRunMemory	    Integer32,
    sysApplElmtRunNumTCon	    Integer32,
    sysApplElmtRunNumFiles	    Integer32
}

sysApplElmtRunIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The index for this table. An arbitrary, small integer used only
	for indexing purposes. Generally monotonically increasing from
	1 as new processes start as part of an application."


Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 16]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 1	}


sysApplElmtRunElemID OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The index into	the installed element table. An	arbitrary, small
	integer	used only for indexing purposes."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 2	}

sysApplElmtRunHRID OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The index into	the Host Resources running software table."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 3	}
sysApplElmtRunTimeStarted OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The time the process was started."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 4	}

sysApplElmtRunTimeEnded	OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The time the process ended."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 5	}

sysApplElmtRunState OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	INTEGER	{
		running	(1),
		runnable (2), -- waiting for resource (CPU, etc.)
		waiting	(3),  -- waiting for event
		exiting	(4),  -- other invalid state
		other (5)
		}
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The state of the running process."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 6	}

sysApplElmtRunName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current


Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 17]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


    DESCRIPTION
	"The full path name of the process."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 7	}

sysApplElmtRunParameters OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The starting parameters for the process."
::= { sysApplElmtRunEntry 8 }

sysApplElmtRunType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	INTEGER	{
		unknown	(1),
		operatingSystem	(2),
		deviceDriver (3),
		application (4)
		}
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The type of the executable."
::= { sysApplElmtRunEntry 9 }

sysApplElmtRunCPU OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The total CPU time of the running process."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 10 }

sysApplElmtRunMemory OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The average memory measured in	Kbytes used by this
	element."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 11 }

sysApplElmtRunNumTCon OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The number of transport connections used by the process."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 12 }

sysApplElmtRunNumFiles OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only


Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 18]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The number of files open by the element."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 13 }



-- The sysApplElmtPastRunTable consists	of entries for elements	of
-- application have previously executed	on the host
-- system.

sysApplElmtPastRunTable	OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SEQUENCE OF SysApplElmtPastRunEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The table describes the processes which have previously executed
	 on the	host as	part of	an application.	It is
	possible to have multiple entries in this table	for each
	application. Entries are added to this table when the corresponding
	process	terminates."
    ::=	{ sysApplRun 4 }

sysApplElmtPastRunEntry	OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SysApplElmtPastRunEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The logical row describing the	processes which
	have run on this host as part of an
	application.  Entries are added	in this	table  when
	an application process terminates. They	are rolled
	out either when	a table	limit size is reached, as
	set in sysApplElmtPastRunSizeLimit or until they
	age past a time	limit as set by	sysApplElmtPastRunTimeLimit."
    INDEX    { sysApplPastRunIndex,sysApplElmtPastRunIndex }
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtPastRunTable   1 }

SysApplElmtPastRunEntry	::= SEQUENCE {
    sysApplElmtPastRunIndex		    Integer32,
    sysApplElmtPastRunElemID		    Integer32,
    sysApplElmtPastRunHRID		    Integer32,
    sysApplElmtPastRunTimeStarted	    DateAndTime,
    sysApplElmtPastRunTimeEnded		    DateAndTime,
    sysApplElmtPastRunState		    INTEGER,
    sysApplElmtPastRunName		    DisplayString,
    sysApplElmtPastRunParameters	    DisplayString,
    sysApplElmtPastRunType		    INTEGER,
    sysApplElmtPastRunCPU		    TimeTicks,
    sysApplElmtPastRunMemory		    Integer32,
    sysApplElmtPastRunNumTCon		    Integer32,
    sysApplElmtPastRunNumFiles		    Integer32
}


Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 19]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


sysApplElmtPastRunIndex	OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The index for this table. An arbitrary, small integer
	assigned by the	agent equal to the corresponding sysApplElmtRunIndex
	which was removed from the sysApplElmtRunTable."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtPastRunEntry 1 }


sysApplElmtPastRunElemID OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The index into	the installed element table. An	arbitrary, small
	integer	used only for indexing purposes."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtPastRunEntry 2 }

sysApplElmtPastRunHRID OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The index into	the Host Resources running software table."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtPastRunEntry 3 }
sysApplElmtPastRunTimeStarted OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The time the process was started."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtPastRunEntry 4 }

sysApplElmtPastRunTimeEnded OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The time the process ended."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtPastRunEntry 5 }

sysApplElmtPastRunState	OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	INTEGER	{
		completed (1),
		failed (2), --
		other (3)
		}
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The state of ending."


Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 20]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


    ::=	{ sysApplElmtPastRunEntry 6 }

sysApplElmtPastRunName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The full path name of the process."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtPastRunEntry 7 }

sysApplElmtPastRunParameters OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The starting parameters for the process."
::= { sysApplElmtPastRunEntry 8	}

sysApplElmtPastRunType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	INTEGER	{
		unknown	(1),
		operatingSystem	(2),
		deviceDriver (3),
		application (4)
		}
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The type of the executable."
::= { sysApplElmtPastRunEntry 9	}

sysApplElmtPastRunCPU OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The total CPU time of the running process."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtPastRunEntry 10 }

sysApplElmtPastRunMemory OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The average memory measured in	Kbytes used by this
	element."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtPastRunEntry 11 }

sysApplElmtPastRunNumTCon OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION


Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 21]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


	"The number of transport connections used by the process."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtPastRunEntry 12 }

sysApplElmtPastRunNumFiles OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The number of files open by the element."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtPastRunEntry 13 }



-- Additional Scalar objects to	control	table sizes

sysApplPastRunTableSizeLimit OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-write
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The maximum size to allow the sysApplPastRunTable to
	grow before entries are	removed, as viewed
	by the agent.  Entries will be
	removed	on the basis of	oldest	sysApplPastRunEnded
	value first."
    DEFVAL	{ 500 }
    ::=	{ sysApplRun 5 }

sysApplPastRunTableItemsRem OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	" A counter of entries removed by the agent during its lifetime
	from the sysApplPastRunTable because of	table size
	limitations as set in sysApplPastRunTableSizeLimit."
    ::=	{ sysApplRun 6 }

sysApplPastRunTableTimeLimit OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    UNITS	"seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS	read-write
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The minimum time in seconds which an entry
	in the sysApplPastRunTable may exist
	before it is removed."
    DEFVAL	{ 3600 }
    ::=	{ sysApplRun 7 }

sysApplElemPastRunSizeLimit OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-write


Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 22]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The maximum size to allow the sysApplElmtPastRun table	to
	grow before entries are	removed	as viewed
	by the agent.  Entries will be
	removed	on the basis of	oldest sysApplElmtPastRunTimeEnded
	value first."
    DEFVAL	{ 500 }
    ::=	{ sysApplRun 8 }


sysApplElemPastRunTableItemsRem	OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"A counter of entries removed by the agent during its lifetime
	from the sysApplElemPastRunTable because of table size
	limitations as set in sysApplElemPastRunTableSizeLimit."
    ::=	{ sysApplRun 9 }



sysApplElemPastRunTimeLimit OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    UNITS	"seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS	read-write
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The minimum time in seconds which an entry
	in the sysApplElemPastRunTable may exist
	before it is removed."
    DEFVAL	{ 500 }
    ::=	{ sysApplRun 10	}



sysApplAgentPollInterval  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    UNITS	"seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS	read-write
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The minimum time in seconds that an agent
	will poll the status of	the managed resources.
	A value	of 0 indicates that their is no	delay
	in the passing of information from the managed
	resources to the agent."
    DEFVAL	{ 60 }
    ::=	{ sysApplRun 11	}





Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 23]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


-- Conformance Macros

sysApplMIBCompliances  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sysApplConformance 1 }
sysApplMIBGroups       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sysApplConformance 2 }

sysApplMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
	"Describes the requirements for	conformance to
	the System Application MIB"
    MODULE  -- this module
	MANDATORY-GROUPS { sysApplInstalledGroup,
			   sysApplRunGroup }
    ::=	{ sysApplMIBCompliances	1 }

sysApplInstalledGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { sysApplInstalledManufacturer,
	      sysApplInstalledProductName,
	      sysApplInstalledVersion,
	      sysApplInstalledSerialNumber,
	      sysApplInstalledDate,
	      sysApplInstalledLocation,
	      sysApplCfgElmtName,
	      sysApplCfgElmtType,
	      sysApplCfgElmtDate,
	      sysApplCfgElmtPath,
	      sysApplCfgElmtSize,
	      sysApplCfgElmtRole }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The system application	installed group	contains
	information about applications which have been
	installed on the host system."
    ::=	{ sysApplMIBGroups 1 }

sysApplRunGroup	OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { sysApplRunInstalledIndex,
	      sysApplRunLastStarted,
	      sysApplRunCurrentState,
	      sysApplRunEnded,
	      sysApplPastRunInstalledIndex,
	      sysApplPastRunLastStarted,
	      sysApplPastRunCurrentState,
	      sysApplPastRunEnded,
	      sysApplElmtRunElemID,
	      sysApplElmtRunHRID,
	      sysApplElmtRunTimeStarted,
	      sysApplElmtRunTimeEnded,
	      sysApplElmtRunState,
	      sysApplElmtRunName,
	      sysApplElmtRunParameters,
	      sysApplElmtRunType,
	      sysApplElmtRunCPU,


Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 24]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


	      sysApplElmtRunMemory,
	      sysApplElmtRunNumTCon,
	      sysApplElmtRunNumFiles,
	      sysApplElmtPastRunElemID,
	      sysApplElmtPastRunHRID,
	      sysApplElmtPastRunTimeStarted,
	      sysApplElmtPastRunTimeEnded,
	      sysApplElmtPastRunState,
	      sysApplElmtPastRunName,
	      sysApplElmtPastRunParameters,
	      sysApplElmtPastRunType,
	      sysApplElmtPastRunCPU,
	      sysApplElmtPastRunMemory,
	      sysApplElmtPastRunNumTCon,
	      sysApplElmtPastRunNumFiles,
	      sysApplPastRunTableSizeLimit,
	      sysApplPastRunTableTimeLimit,
	      sysApplElemPastRunSizeLimit ,
	      sysApplElemPastRunTimeLimit ,
	      sysApplAgentPollInterval,
	      sysApplPastRunTableItemsRem,
	      sysApplElemPastRunTableItemsRem  }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The system application	run group contains information
	about applications and associated elements which have
	run or are currently running on	the host system."
    ::=	{ sysApplMIBGroups 2 }

END

6.  Acknowledgements

This document was produced by the Application MIB working group.





















Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 25]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


7.  References

[1]  McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management Information
     Base for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-
     II", STD 17, RFC 1213, Hughes LAN Systems,	Performance
     Systems International, March 1991.

















































Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 26]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


8.  Security Considerations

Security issues	are not	discussed in this memo.




















































Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 27]








Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	     April 30,1996


Table of Contents


1 Abstract ..................................................	 2
2 The SNMPv2 Network Management	Framework ...................	 3
2.1 Object Definitions ......................................	 3
3 Overview ..................................................	 4
4 The Structure	of the MIB ..................................	 5
5 Definitions ...............................................	 7
6 Acknowledgements ..........................................	25
7 References ................................................	26
8 Security Considerations ...................................	27











































Expires	November 30, 1996				 [Page 28]




