Network Working Group                                    Vamsi K Gondi, 
Internet Draft                                         Nazim Agoulmine, 
Expires: August 2008                                        LRSM, UEVE, 
                                                                  France 
                                                       February 18, 2008 
                                    
 
                         Handover method using EAP 
              draft-gondi-hokey-neweap-handover-method-00.txt


Status of this Memo 

   By submitting this Internet-Draft, each author represents that       
   any applicable patent or other IPR claims of which he or she is       
   aware have been or will be disclosed, and any of which he or she       
   becomes aware will be disclosed, in accordance with Section 6 of       
   BCP 79. 

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering 
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that 
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts. 

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six 
   months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents 
   at any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as 
   reference material or to cite them other than as "work in progress." 

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at 
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt 

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at 
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html 

   This Internet-Draft will expire on August 18, 2008. 

Copyright Notice 

   Copyright (C) The IETF Trust (2008). 

Abstract 

The increase in the use of different access networks which involves 
different mechanisms for authentication and access authorizations, 
demands the new mechanisms to roam at any time anywhere with low 
latency. To overcome this process we need new mechanisms where a user 
terminal roams in different access networks with low latency and 
 
 
 
Vamsi & Nazim          Expires August 18, 2008                 [Page 1] 

Internet-Draft        Handover method using EAP           February 2008 
    

efficiently. There is a need for unified signaling mechanisms for 
choosing and accessing networks. 

In this draft we have discussed some of the processes involved in 
network selection, mobility management, security management in detailed 
to perform handover. The Handover information is passed to home server 
using the new handover method using EAP proposed vice versa in this 
draft. Even though there are different mechanisms provide this support 
such as IAPP context transfer mechanisms for seamless mobility some of 
the instances like supporting different access networks, roaming in 
access networks etc is not considered. The proposed mechanism is 
interoperable with the existing procedures involving security 
authentication and mobility during roaming. 

Table of Contents 

    
   1. Introduction...................................................2 
   2. Conventions used in this document..............................4 
   3. Overview of EAP HO and Handover mechanism......................5 
      3.1. Authentication and Re-authentication......................6 
      3.2. Handover Library Model....................................7 
         3.2.1. Network Selection (NS)...............................7 
         3.2.2. Handover (HO)........................................8 
         3.2.3. Security Context Transfer Mechanisms (SC)............9 
         3.2.4. Mobility Management (MM)............................10 
      3.3. EAP HO conversation......................................10 
      3.4. Radius server considerations.............................12 
   4. EAP HO packet format..........................................12 
      4.1. Packet Format............................................13 
   5. Security Considerations.......................................15 
   6. IANA Considerations...........................................15 
   7. Conclusions...................................................15 
   8. References....................................................16 
      8.1. Normative References.....................................16 
      8.2. Informative References...................................16 
   Author's Addresses...............................................16 
   Intellectual Property Statement..................................17 
   Disclaimer of Validity...........................................17 
    
1. Introduction 

   The open issues which remain are about what are the signaling 
   protocols that should be used for exchanging the information between 
   the existing network entities to perform seamless handover. It will 
   be a big advantage if information about presence (PR), network 
   selection (NS), security context management (SC) and mobility (MM) 
 
 
Vamsi & Nazim          Expires August 18, 2008                 [Page 2] 

Internet-Draft        Handover method using EAP           February 2008 
    

   signaling can be transported from the home access network to the 
   mobile terminal (MT) and vice versa to perform the handover. Ideally 
   this process can be performed before handover trigger with new 
   access network to reduce the latency and ensure seamless roaming in 
   any access networks. The main aim is to design a mechanism which is 
   interoperable with the existing architectures and mechanisms 
   involved in different access networks.  

   In this process we have identified a mechanism where a terminal can 
   gather information from different entities performing different 
   functionalities, and send this information to the access network. On 
   the access networks side, the server collects the details for that 
   terminal investigates the request and performs relevant operations 
   to send back the reply to terminal. Terminal collects these data and 
   distributes to different entities and performs the handover in a 
   seamless manner (in this case the terminal does the pre 
   authentication with the network entities of network selection, 
   handover decision, security context management, mobility management 
   and session management). 

   In the present architectures of WLAN and WIMAX the information for 
   authentication is transported using EAP [1]. EAP typically runs 
   directly over data link layers such as IEEE 802 and PPP without 
   requiring IP address.  EAP provides its own support for duplicate 
   elimination and retransmission, but is reliant on lower layer 
   ordering guarantees. The basic authentication and authorization 
   access mechanisms involve AAA in the networks at present, based on 
   this we have designed this architecture to extend its 
   functionalities for handover and roaming support. By introducing new 
   handover method in EAP (EAP HO), at the time of re-authentication 
   different procedures can be performed and the necessary information 
   for the handover can be transferred from the client and home access 
   network. In this process the information for network selection, 
   handover management, security and mobility context management is 
   send to the access network using EAP. In this new EAP HO method 
   there are different sub types which can handle the different 
   processes.  

   An API is proposed and the functionalities of this are to 
   communicate with the different entities of the mobile terminal and 
   performs different processes. This API can initiate EAP and the new 
   method and through the subtype option in the proposed method it 
   sends the data to the access network. This API can also handle 
   different mechanisms like the authentication, mobility management of 
   the mobile terminal. Through this API the peer authentication model 
   can be triggered according to the user settings initially and with 
   the security context transfer from the access network the API can 
 
 
Vamsi & Nazim          Expires August 18, 2008                 [Page 3] 

Internet-Draft        Handover method using EAP           February 2008 
    

   reconfigure the authentication mechanisms and authenticates to the 
   visiting network. The details of the API are explained in detail of 
   section 3 with the process handlers and EAP HO trigger mechanisms. 
   In section 4 gives details of EAP HO message sequences with the 
   access networks (home and visiting networks). Section 5 provides 
   information of the packet format of the EAP HO. 

2. Conventions used in this document 

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", 
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this 
   document are to be interpreted as described in RFC-2119. 

  Mobile Terminal (MT): 
         The  user  terminal  which  has  the  capability  of  mobility 
         traditionally a mobile phone or a laptop. 
   Network Selection (NS): 

         The process of identifying the best available network for 
         accessing a network. 
   Handover (HO): 

         Mechanism involving the authentication and access control of 
         the MT moving from one access network to another access 
         network or technology. 
   Security Configuration (SC): 

         Authentication and re-authentication management of the mobile 
         terminal  in  any  access  networks,  in  this  draft  context 
         management is proposed where the security credentials can be 
         transported to other mechanisms. 
   Mobility Management (MM) 

         In this mechanisms the mobility and session context management 
         can be achieved. 
   Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP): 

         Extensible   Authentication   Protocol   is   a   universal 
         authentication framework frequently used in wireless networks 
         and Point-to-Point connections defined by RFC 3748. 
   Radius server: 


 
 
Vamsi & Nazim          Expires August 18, 2008                 [Page 4] 

Internet-Draft        Handover method using EAP           February 2008 
    

         Remote Authentication Dial In User Service (RADIUS) is an AAA 
         (authentication, authorization, and accounting) protocol for 
         controlling access to network resources. 
3. Overview of EAP HO and Handover mechanism 

   Handover API (Library) proposed in this architecture as mentioned 
   earlier provides roaming and handover support for a mobile terminal 
   when it is roaming in access networks. Traditionally the mobile 
   terminal does not provide any pre authentication support with the 
   existing architecture. As mentioned earlier the information 
   regarding handover can be preemptively processed before mobile 
   terminal moving to another access networks. The proposed Handover 
   API can perform this process and using EAP HO it sends the details 
   of the handover to the home network while it connected to any 
   network.  

   On the other side the radius server receives this information and 
   process this information with the access networks entities and also 
   with the visiting network. The Radius protocol and process mechanism 
   is out of this draft context, we are proposing another draft where 
   the Radius server functionalities are extended for roaming and 
   handover support compatible with the proposed EAP HO method. 

   Initially when the mobile terminal starts the Handover library 
   starts and collects the information of the available networks from 
   the different interfaces on the mobile terminal. This information is 
   basically the available SSIDs, SNR etc..., after looking details of 
   the user policy the HO Library select the best available network, 
   and does initiate the interface and try to authenticate using any 
   EAP method to that network. After successful authentication it does 
   the mobility part using Mobile IP and register to the HA and starts 
   the user session. Whenever the SNR of the present network does goes 
   below the level of the required value, it scans for the other 
   available networks to connect. After gathering the information it 
   triggers EAP HO on the peer and sends the details to the 
   authenticator in a normal EAP process with the user identity 
   initially. The packets are routed according to the NAI of the peer. 
   With the EAP HO sub type of NS the mobile terminal starts a request 
   to the Radius server. Radius server on the other hand listens to the 
   details and responds with the best accessible network as a response 
   for the request of the mobile terminal. 

   After receiving the details of NS the handover library process the 
   information and triggers EAP HO with the subtype of HO the best 
   suited network as a request to the access network. The radius server 
   responds with the HO confirmation requesting the mobile terminal to 
 
 
Vamsi & Nazim          Expires August 18, 2008                 [Page 5] 

Internet-Draft        Handover method using EAP           February 2008 
    

   access that network. On the background the radius server 
   interrogates the availability of resources, SLA with the other 
   access network to provide services to the mobile terminal. After 
   receiving the confirmation for handover as a response the mobile 
   terminal handover library trigger for SC and MM methods for deriving 
   the security keys with the home server and create a session using 
   the MM before the terminal initiates the re authentication to the 
   visiting network. In this process the HO Library sends a request to 
   home server for the SC management, the server responds with the 
   details of the duplicate keys derived on the server for the next 
   session and sends as a response to the peer. Through EAP HO SC 
   response, HO library collects the details and prepare for handover 
   with that interface with keys from the server. On the access server 
   side, it derives the temporary keys and forwards to the visiting 
   network so that the authentication can be performed locally in that 
   network to reduce the latency during the re authentication. Again 
   after successful SC management the HO library triggers EAP HO with 
   MM as subtype for MM, in this case we used PMIP for mobility 
   management, the MM is performed on the access network side. 

   The following section provides details and procedures involved 
   during pre authentication. The following procedure provides best QoS 
   guarantee, control of access and low latency. The following section 
   provides details of client processing involves details of network 
   selection, mobility, handover management and security context 
   management. 

3.1. Authentication and Re-authentication 

   In general the authentication is performed during the initial access 
   to the network. In this process the handover library does trigger 
   authentication, using general EAP methods it does the authentication 
   to the access network and establishes the session. Normally the re-
   authentication does disconnect to the present network and initiating 
   the EAP method again with NAI. If ever the access network which is 
   connecting belongs or a part of the SLA with the home network of the 
   operator the authentication takes time, during this process 
   different applications and services can have lot of delay and packet 
   loss. In the process proposed in this draft, the mobile terminal and 
   the access networks pre authenticate the details using EAP HO method 
   proposed in this draft before it disconnects to the present network 
   and tries to establish a connection with the other network. With the 
   context management of the SC and MM the re-authentication to the 
   visiting network the delay and the latency reduces drastically. 



 
 
Vamsi & Nazim          Expires August 18, 2008                 [Page 6] 

Internet-Draft        Handover method using EAP           February 2008 
    

3.2. Handover Library Model  

   As mentioned earlier the handover library does manage the 
   authentication and re authentication of the mobile terminal during 
   handover and roaming in the access networks. In the following 
   section we provide in depth details of different process involved in 
   the EAP HO method with the Handover Library during authentication 
   and re-authentications. 

3.2.1. Network Selection (NS) 

   Network selection can be initiated at the terminal level or at the 
   network level. In this process a manual triggering or automatic can 
   be done at the terminal level. When the mobile terminal is switched 
   on the terminal must initiate the network interfaces available on 
   the terminal and scanning for any available networks for connecting. 
   The mobile terminal checks for networks which are hard coded on the 
   terminal as the first preference, if ever the home networks are not 
   available at that instance the mobile terminal peer must try to 
   select one of the networks available and use SLA for getting 
   connected to that access network. In case if the mobile terminal is 
   already connected to any access network, using EAP HO home network 
   can provide at any given instance of available networks and black 
   listed networks to connect to mobile terminal. Once this list is 
   available on the mobile terminal it can do the network selection 
   according to the QoS, preferences, policies, and priority. In 
   roaming case, the mobile will select the networks that have SLA 
   agreement with the home network. If there's not preferred network, 
   the mobile will select a suitable roaming intermediary to help the 
   roaming procedure. 

   In this mechanism we process different information available on the 
   mobile terminal. The mobile terminal does two types of information 
   processing one during initial authentication and other involves 
   during the re authentication. In the re-authentication process the 
   client contacts the home server and process the information 
   available from the home server as well to do the network selection. 

   During initial authentication:  

   In this process the client initiates the network selection 
   procedure, after initiation the client terminal starts the network 
   scan. During the network scan the device probes the different 
   devices available and scans the available networks. The client 
   terminal process the information from devices and process the SSID 
   of the networks. And the terminal initiates the location based 
   process such as GPS, and available home network from the local 
 
 
Vamsi & Nazim          Expires August 18, 2008                 [Page 7] 

Internet-Draft        Handover method using EAP           February 2008 
    

   database. With all the networks gathering from different processes, 
   policy of the user, the client selects best suitable network. The 
   client can initiates the NAI of the home network to connect to that 
   visiting network. 

   During Re-Authentication in visiting network:  

   The client does the same procedure as mentioned above and sends the 
   selected networks to the home networks, the home networks chooses 
   the best networks in the preference order to the client. In the home 
   network it processes the details which involve the policies and 
   other procedures to select the network. After receiving the NS list 
   from home network the client NS chooses the best access network and 
   initiates the handover mechanisms with selected network as input. 

3.2.2. Handover (HO) 

   Handover management in this architecture, initiate network 
   selection, does required measurements on the network interfaces for 
   network selection. HO on the mobile terminal does measurements and 
   initiates the network selection and informs the access network about 
   the selected target network from the NS process for possible 
   handover or roaming. On the other hand HO on the access network does 
   prepare the network for handovers and communicate with other 
   networks. After identifying the selected target network from the 
   home network, home network sends the handover initiation to the HO 
   of the mobile terminal for initiating the handover to the target 
   network. After handover initiation messages from the home network, 
   HO on mobile terminal initiates the security (SC) management on the 
   mobile terminal for authentication and re-authentication on the 
   target network.  

   This procedure involves the decision after gathering information 
   from all the other procedures of security and mobility. As mentioned 
   earlier the mobile terminal performs two methods one at initial 
   authentication and the other during the re-authentication. 

   During initial authentication:  

   After receiving the selected network from NS the handover initiation 
   function initiate the SC and MM and wait until all the other 
   procedure are completed and then does the handover trigger and does 
   the initial connection on the selected interface with the selected 
   network. 

   During Re-Authentication in visiting network:  

 
 
Vamsi & Nazim          Expires August 18, 2008                 [Page 8] 

Internet-Draft        Handover method using EAP           February 2008 
    

   With the selected network the client terminal does start the 
   handover mechanism, the handover function calls home network for 
   confirming the selected network to handover. After receiving the 
   reply from the server the decision is made and triggers the handover 
   procedure with SC and MM. 

3.2.3. Security Context Transfer Mechanisms (SC) 

   The role of SC in mobile terminal is to identify the network and get 
   authenticated or re-authenticated to the different access networks. 
   Security mechanism can be obtained by EAP and implementing EAP 
   methods of EAP-SIM/AKA and EAP-TLS on wireless networks. On the 
   other hand access network have a capability to authenticate the 
   user's uses this mechanisms. Whenever there is a request for 
   authentication from the user Radius server of the access networks 
   uses specific EAP methods and creates the security credentials and 
   authenticate the users. On the other hand to make more secured in 
   the architecture we implemented mutual authentications where a MT 
   and access networks authenticate each other. Whenever MT tries to 
   roam to different access networks, the home network does create the 
   re-authentication credentials like Re-id, duplicate certificates and 
   keys and they are send to the MT and to the target access network 
   using security context transfer. We used security context transfer 
   to reduce latency delay during re-authentications by using context 
   transfer of security to target network, while the MT tries to 
   authenticate at the target network without reaching to the home 
   network for re-authentications, by this way latency can be reduced. 

   In this section we deal with authentication and re-authentication of 
   the client terminal with the help of security context management. 

   During initial authentication:  

   With the access network ID and with the specific NAI the user id is 
   strapped. The network interface is initiated and the security 
   mechanism on that interface is started, the client uses the strapped 
   user ID with NAI to access with the access network security 
   mechanisms in this case we used EAP with TLS or SIM for the 
   authentication. After successful authentication mobility management 
   is processed. If ever the authentication is failed the network 
   selection is processed again. 

   During Re-Authentication in visiting network:  

   After the security context management is started the client terminal 
   contacts the home network server. Home radius server provides the 
   re-authentication ID and duplicates keys to the client. After the 
 
 
Vamsi & Nazim          Expires August 18, 2008                 [Page 9] 

Internet-Draft        Handover method using EAP           February 2008 
    

   client receiving the security IDs and keys it informs interface 
   security management.  After handover decision the interface 
   initiates the security authentication with the provided keys, if the 
   re-authentication is successful it initiates the mobility management 
   if ever the authentication fails it initiates the network selection 
   again. 

3.2.4. Mobility Management (MM) 

   This section deals with the mobility management during 
   authentication and re-authentication. 

   During initial authentication:  

   In this process mobility management is started when the security and 
   handover. After receiving this information the IP from DHCP and 
   mobile IP functions. 

   During Re-Authentication in visiting network:  

   Mobility management sends the home network which type of mobility 
   mechanisms to be implemented, the home network assists according to 
   the visiting network information and reply to the client to use 
   Proxy MIP or Client MIP. Other information such as keys etc.. are 
   transferred to the client. 

3.3. EAP HO conversation 

   In this section we will provide the details of EAP HO conversations 
   with the authenticator and the radius server during the pre 
   authentication information model using EAP HO method. As mentioned 
   earlier the EAP HO initiates when the HO library of the mobile 
   terminal identify the best suited network, before it is 
   disconnecting to the present network it performs the EAP HO and gets 
   the details of NS, HO, SC, MM from the radius server and prepares 
   the terminal for direct authentication. 

   As shown in figure 1 the information exchange during EAP HO method,   
   in this process the EAP HO can be triggered by the Peer or by an 
   authenticator when there is a request identity, HO library sends the 
   reply and a hint of HO method, then the HO starts the EAP HO method 
   with the subtype NS request, it follows until MM and after 
   successful MM the server sends the success for the EAP HO. In figure 
   2, gives details of direct authentication to the visiting network 
   using the HO information after the EAP HO method, the home server 
   forwards the re-authentication id and keys to the visiting server. 

 
 
Vamsi & Nazim          Expires August 18, 2008                [Page 10] 

Internet-Draft        Handover method using EAP           February 2008 
    

    

   Peer              Authenticator             Home Server 
   ====              =============             =========== 
    
     EAP request Identity 
     <--------------------- 
    
    
     EAP response Identity 
     ---------------------> ----------------------->  
     EAP HO method indication 
    
          EAP HO start subtype NS request 
      ---------------------------------------------> 
    
          EAP HO subtype NS reply 
      <--------------------------------------------- 
    
          EAP HO subtype HO request 
      ---------------------------------------------> 
    
          EAP HO subtype HO reply 
      <--------------------------------------------- 
    
          EAP HO subtype SC request 
      ---------------------------------------------> 
    
          EAP HO subtype SC reply 
      <--------------------------------------------- 
    
          EAP HO subtype MM request 
      ---------------------------------------------> 
    
          EAP HO Success 
      <--------------------------------------------- 
    

   Figure 1: EAP HO method with different subtype message exchange 

   Peer              Authenticator           visiting Server 
   ====              =============             =========== 
 
 
Vamsi & Nazim          Expires August 18, 2008                [Page 11] 

Internet-Draft        Handover method using EAP           February 2008 
    

    
     EAP request Identity 
    <--------------------- 
     
     EAP response Identity (re-authentication ID) 
     ---------------------> -----------------------> 
    
            EAP request re-authentication 
      <--------------------------------------------- 
      
            EAP response re-authentication 
      ---------------------------------------------> 
    
                   EAP Success 
      <--------------------------------------------- 
   Figure 2: EAP Re-authentication after EAP HO method 
    
3.4. Radius server considerations 

   Not only the client side the access networks are also has to be 
   modified to accommodate the solution proposed in this architecture. 
   The Radius server has been modified with new modules supporting NS, 
   SC, HO and MM. Different codes and attributes are been added to the 
   existing architecture of Radius to support these mechanisms proposed 
   in this architecture. The Radius server is also modified so it can 
   contact the different network entities like the APs, NAS, HA, FA and 
   MPA etc. And also we are adding new functionalities where the 
   context transfer can be performed from the home radius server to the 
   visiting radius servers. The re authentication model in the visiting 
   networks has to be modified so that the mobile terminal can directly 
   authenticates with that access network. We are in process of 
   proposing a draft for the roaming and mobility support for the 
   Radius server. 

4. EAP HO packet format 

   The proposed protocol is to transport information for handover and 
   roaming support for a client in different access network to its home 
   network dedicated server. In this process the NAS and the radius 
   server of the visiting network routes the packets from the client to 
   the home radius server. The client and radius server equipped to 
   access and process the information between them through an API and 
   EAP HO. The proposed EAP handover method support different 

 
 
Vamsi & Nazim          Expires August 18, 2008                [Page 12] 

Internet-Draft        Handover method using EAP           February 2008 
    

   functionalities of Network selection, Handover Management, security 
   context management, mobility management and presence management.  

4.1. Packet Format 

   The proposed mechanism the EAP HO packet format is shown below. 

   0                   1                   2                   3 
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ 
   |    code (1 B) |identifier(1 B)|        length (2 bytes)       | 
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ 
   | type (1 B)    | flags (1 B)   |   message length (4 bytes)     
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ 
   | message length(contd ...)     | sub type (1B) |subtype data 
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ 
   | subtype data............... 
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+ 
    

   As mentioned in the above packet format, the packet contains fields 
   of code, identifier, length of the packet, its type, flags for 
   controlling, message length if in the case the packet is supporting 
   the fragmentation, and the main important is the subtype method 
   which is the mechanisms involved like the NS or SC etc.., and the 
   subtype main data. 

   Code: The Code field is one octet and identifies the Type of EAP 
   packet. 

   EAP HO Codes are assigned as follows: 
            1       Request 
            2       Response 
            3       Success 
            4       Failure 
   Since EAP only defines Codes 1-4, EAP packets with other codes MUST 
   be silently discarded by both authenticators and peers. 

   Identifier: The Identifier field is one octet and aids in matching 
   Responses with Requests. 

   Length: The Length field is two octets and indicates the length, in 
   octets, of the EAP packet including the Code, Identifier, Length, 
   and Data fields. Octets outside the range of the Length field should 

 
 
Vamsi & Nazim          Expires August 18, 2008                [Page 13] 

Internet-Draft        Handover method using EAP           February 2008 
    

   be treated as Data Link Layer padding and MUST be ignore upon 
   reception.  A message with the Length field set to a value larger 
   than the number of received octets MUST be silently discarded. 

   Type:  the type of EAP HO is not yet identified by the IETF for the 
   experimental purposes we are using 255 as our data field. Can be re 
   assigned according to the IANA consideration. 

   Flags:  the flags for the packet in the proposed mechanisms are 
   shown below. 

   0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 
   L M S R R R R R R 
   L is for length inclusion 

   M is for More Fragments, this is included on all the packet but it 
   is excluded in the last packet. 

   S is for EAP HO Start 

   R is for Reserved for future inclusions 

   Message Length: the message length field is of size 4 octets 
   contains the information of the total length of the message in the 
   packet. 

   Subtype: subtype field of 1 octet, it contains details of which type 
   of sub information the packet is carrying. This is specified by an 
   API from libraries to the EAP engine.  

   0   1   2   3   4   5   6   7   8 
   NS  HO  SC  PM  CM  PR  R   R   R 
   NS field is used in case the packet is carrying the NS information 
   from the client and server. 

   HO field is for Handover Management 

   SC is for security context management 

   PM is proxy mobile IP management  

   CM is Client mobile IP management 

   PR is for presence management for the routing and session management 

   R is reserved 
 
 
Vamsi & Nazim          Expires August 18, 2008                [Page 14] 

Internet-Draft        Handover method using EAP           February 2008 
    

   Subtype Data: this data is the information which the packet is 
   transporting from the client and server and vice versa. 

5. Security Considerations 

   The proposed mechanisms has been addressing some of the security 
   vulnerabilities, but there are still open issues of the privacy of 
   the users and access networks which is an open issue which has to be 
   addressed properly. Later version of the draft we want to provide 
   more information of the security threats and main issues of man in 
   the middle attacks. 

6. IANA Considerations 

   The type value of the new EAP HO method has to be assigned by the 
   IANA. For the experimental purposes we have been using the some 
   available EAP types. 

7. Conclusions 

   The mechanisms proposed in this draft can provide seamless mobility 
   solution in access networks during roaming and handover. Using this 
   method the context transfer can be achieved to the client and the 
   visiting network. The control of handover and roaming can be 
   achieved in the access networks using this mechanism. Even though 
   the proposed solution is nomadic there are issues that are to be 
   solved to make this proposed solution robust and easily adaptable to 
   every access networks.  



















 
 
Vamsi & Nazim          Expires August 18, 2008                [Page 15] 

Internet-Draft        Handover method using EAP           February 2008 
    

8. References 

8.1. Normative References 

   [1]   Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate 
         Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997. 

   [2]   Narten, T. and H. Alvestrand, "Guidelines for Writing an IANA 
         Considerations Section in RFCs", BCP 26, RFC 2434, October 
         1998. 

   [3]   Blunk, L., "Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP)", RFC 
         3748 (work in progress), June 2004. 

8.2. Informative References 

   [4]   Rigney, C., Willens, S., Rubens, A. and W. Simpson, "Remote 
         Authentication Dial In User Service (RADIUS)", RFC 2865, June 
         2000. 

   [5]   Aboba, B., Zorn, G. and D. Mitton, "RADIUS and IPv6", RFC 
         3162, August 2001. 

   [6]   Aboba, B. and P. Calhoun, "RADIUS (Remote Authentication Dial 
         In User Service) Support For Extensible Authentication 
         Protocol (EAP)", RFC 3579, September 2003. 

   [7]   Congdon, P., Aboba, B., Smith, A., Zorn, G. and J. Roese, 
         "IEEE 802.1X Remote Authentication Dial In User Service 
         (RADIUS) Usage Guidelines", RFC 3580, September 2003. 

Author's Addresses 

   Vamsi Krishna Gondi, 
   LRSM Research Lab, University of Evry 
   Evry, France 91000 
       
   Email: vamsi.gondi@gmail.com 
    

   Nazim Agoulmine, 
   LRSM Research Lab, University of Evry 
   Evry, France 91000 
       
   Email: nazim.agoulmine@iup.univ-evry.fr 
    

 
 
Vamsi & Nazim          Expires August 18, 2008                [Page 16] 

Internet-Draft        Handover method using EAP           February 2008 
    

Intellectual Property Statement 

   The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any 
   Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed 
   to pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described 
   in this document or the extent to which any license under such 
   rights might or might not be available; nor does it represent that 
   it has made any independent effort to identify any such rights.  
   Information on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC 
   documents can be found in BCP 78 and BCP 79. 

   Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any 
   assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an 
   attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use 
   of such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this 
   specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository 
   at http://www.ietf.org/ipr. 

   The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any 
   copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary 
   rights that may cover technology that may be required to implement 
   this standard.  Please address the information to the IETF at 
   ietf-ipr@ietf.org. 

Disclaimer of Validity 

   This document and the information contained herein are provided on 
   an "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE 
   REPRESENTS OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY, THE 
   IETF TRUST AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL 
   WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY 
   WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE 
   ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS 
   FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. 

Copyright Statement 

   Copyright (C) The IETF Trust (2008). 

   This document is subject to the rights, licenses and restrictions 
   contained in BCP 78, and except as set forth therein, the authors 
   retain all their rights. 

    



 
 
Vamsi & Nazim          Expires August 18, 2008                [Page 17] 

