





INTERNET-DRAFT                                              John Lazzaro
January 7, 2004                                              CS Division
Expires: July 7, 2005                                        UC Berkeley


    Framing RTP and RTCP Packets over Connection-Oriented Transport

              <draft-ietf-avt-rtp-framing-contrans-05.txt>


Status of this Memo

By submitting this Internet-Draft, I certify that any applicable patent
or other IPR claims of which I am aware have been disclosed, and any of
which I become aware will be disclosed, in accordance with RFC 3668.

By submitting this Internet-Draft, I accept the provisions of Section 3
of RFC 3667 (BCP 78).

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/1id-abstracts.txt.

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

This Internet-Draft will expire on July 7, 2005.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2004).  All Rights Reserved.


                                Abstract

     This memo defines a method for framing Real Time Protocol (RTP) and
     Real Time Control Protocol (RTCP) packets onto connection-oriented
     transport (such as TCP).  The memo also defines how session
     descriptions may specify RTP streams that use the framing method.




Lazzaro                                                         [Page 1]

INTERNET-DRAFT                                           7 January 2005


                            Table of Contents


1. Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
     1.1 Terminology . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2
2. The Framing Method  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
3. Packet Stream Properties  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
4. Session Descriptions for RTP over TCP . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
5. Example . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   6
6. Congestion Control  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
7. Acknowledgements  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
8. Security Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
9. IANA Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
10. References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
     10.1 Normative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8
Authors' Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
Intellectual Property Rights Statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   9
Full Copyright Statement . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  10
Change Log for <draft-ietf-avt-rtp-framing-contrans-05.txt>  . . . .  11




1.  Introduction

The Audio/Video Profile (AVP, [1]) for the Real-Time Protocol (RTP, [2])
does not define a method for framing RTP and Real Time Control Protocol
(RTCP) packets onto connection-oriented transport protocols (such as
TCP).  However, earlier versions of RTP/AVP did define a framing method,
and this method is in use in several implementations.

In this memo, we document the method and show how a session description
[4] may specify the use of the method.

1.1 Terminology

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in BCP 14, RFC 2119 [5].












Lazzaro                                                         [Page 2]

INTERNET-DRAFT                                           7 January 2005


2.  The Framing Method

Figure 1 defines the framing method.


 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
 ---------------------------------------------------------------
|             LENGTH            |  RTP or RTCP packet ...       |
 ---------------------------------------------------------------


     Figure 1 -- The bitfield definition of the framing method.


A 16-bit unsigned integer LENGTH field, coded in network byte order
(big-endian), begins the frame.  If LENGTH is non-zero, an RTP or RTCP
packet follows the LENGTH field.  The value coded in the LENGTH field
MUST equal the number of octets in the RTP or RTCP packet.  Zero is a
valid value for LENGTH, and codes the null packet.

This framing method does not use frame markers (i.e. an octet of
constant value that would precede the LENGTH field).  Frame markers are
useful for detecting errors in the LENGTH field.  In lieu of a frame
marker, receivers SHOULD monitor the RTP and RTCP header fields whose
values are predictable (for example, the RTP version number).  See
Appendix A.1 of [1] for additional guidance.


3.  Packet Stream Properties

In most respects, the framing method does not specify properties above
the level of a single packet.  In particular, Section 2 does not
specify:

   Bi-directional issues.

      Section 2 defines a framing method for use in one direction
      on a connection.  The relationship between framed packets
      flowing in defined direction and in the reverse direction is
      not specified.










Lazzaro                                                         [Page 3]

INTERNET-DRAFT                                           7 January 2005


   Packet loss and reordering.

      The reliable nature of a connection does not imply that a
      framed RTP stream has a contiguous sequence number ordering.
      For example, if the connection is used to tunnel a UDP stream
      through a network middlebox that only passes TCP, the sequence
      numbers in the framed stream reflect any packet loss or
      reordering on the UDP portion of the end-to-end flow.

   Out-of-band semantics.

      Section 2 does not define the RTP or RTCP semantics for closing
      a TCP socket, or of any other "out of band" signal for the
      connection.

Memos that normatively include the framing method MAY specify these
properties.  For example, Section 4 of this memo specifies these
properties for RTP/AVP sessions specified in session descriptions.

In one respect, the framing protocol DOES specify a property above the
level of a single packet.  If a direction of a connection carries RTP
packets, the streams carried in this direction MUST support the use of
multiple SSRCs in those RTP packets.  If a direction of a connection
carries RTCP packets, the streams carried in this direction MUST support
the use of multiple SSRCs in those RTCP packets.


4.  Session Descriptions for RTP/AVP over TCP

Session management protocols that use the Session Description Protocol
[4] in conjunction with the Offer/Answer Protocol [6] MUST use the
methods described in [3] to set up RTP/AVP streams over TCP.  In this
case, the use of Offer/Answer is REQUIRED, as the setup methods
described in [3] rely on Offer/Answer.

In principle, [3] is capable of setting up RTP sessions for any RTP
profile.  In practice, each profile has unique issues that must be
considered when applying [3] to set up streams for the profile.

In this memo, we restrict our focus to the Audio/Video Profile (AVP,
[2]).  Below, we define a token value ("TCP/RTP/AVP") that signals the
use of RTP/AVP in a TCP session.  We also define the operational
procedures that a TCP/RTP/AVP stream MUST follow.

We expect that other standards-track memos will appear to support the
use of the framing method with other RTP profiles.  The support memo for
a new profile MUST define a token value for the profile, using the style
we used for AVP.  Thus, for profile xyz, the token value MUST be



Lazzaro                                                         [Page 4]

INTERNET-DRAFT                                           7 January 2005


"TCP/RTP/xyz".  The memo SHOULD adopt the operational procedures we
define below for AVP, unless these procedures are in some way
incompatible with the profile.

The remainder of this section describes how to setup and use an AVP
stream in a TCP session.  Figure 2 shows the syntax of a media (m=) line
[4] of a session description:


      "m=" media SP port ["/" integer] SP proto 1*(SP fmt) CRLF


       Figure 2 -- Syntax for an SDP media (m=) line (from [4]).


The <proto> token value "TCP/RTP/AVP" specifies an RTP/AVP [1] [2]
stream that uses the framing method over TCP.

The <fmt> tokens that follow <proto> MUST be unique unsigned integers in
the range 0 to 127.  The <fmt> tokens specify an RTP payload type
associated with the stream.

In all other respects, the session description syntax for the framing
method is identical to [3].

The TCP <port> on the media line carries RTP packets.  If a media stream
uses RTCP, a second connection carries RTCP packets.  The port for the
RTCP connection is chosen using the algorithms defined in [4] or by the
mechanism defined in [7].

The TCP connections MAY carry bi-directional traffic, following the
semantics defined in [3].  Both directions of a connection MUST carry
the same type of packets (RTP or RTCP).  The packets MUST exclusively
code the RTP or RTCP streams specified on the media line(s) associated
with the connection.

As noted in [1], the use of RTP without RTCP is strongly discouraged.
However, if a sender does not wish to send RTCP packets in a media
session, the sender MUST add the lines "b=RS:0" AND "b=RR:0" to the
media description (from [8]).

If the session descriptions of the offer AND the answer both contain the
"b=RS:0" AND "b=RR:0" lines, a TCP flow for the media session MUST NOT
be created by either endpoint in the session.  In all other cases,
endpoints MUST establish two TCP connections for an RTP AVP stream, one
for RTP and one for RTCP.

As described in [6], the use of the "sendonly" or "sendrecv" attribute



Lazzaro                                                         [Page 5]

INTERNET-DRAFT                                           7 January 2005


in an offer (or answer) indicates that the offerer (or answerer) intends
to send RTP packets on the RTP TCP connection.  The use of the
"recvonly" or "sendrecv" attributes in an offer (or answer) indicates
that the offerer (or answerer) wishes to receive RTP packets on the RTP
TCP connection.


5.  Example

The session descriptions in Figure 3-4 define a TCP RTP/AVT session.


v=0
o=first 2520644554 2838152170 IN IP4 first.example.net
s=Example
t=0 0
c=IN IP4 192.0.2.105
m=audio 9 TCP/RTP/AVP 11
a=setup:active
a=connection:new

       Figure 3 -- TCP session description for first participant.


v=0
o=second 2520644554 2838152170 IN IP4 second.example.net
s=Example
t=0 0
c=IN IP4 192.0.2.94
m=audio 16112 TCP/RTP/AVP 10 11
a=setup:passive
a=connection:new

       Figure 4 -- TCP session description for second participant.


The session descriptions define two parties that participate in a
connection-oriented RTP/AVP session.  The first party (Figure 3) is
capable of receiving stereo L16 streams (static payload type 11).  The
second party (Figure 4) is capable of receiving mono (static payload
type 10) or stereo L16 streams.

The "setup" attribute in Figure 3 specifies that the first party is
"active" and initiates connections, and the "setup" attribute in Figure
4 specifies that the second party is "passive" and accepts connections
[3].

The first party connects to the network address (192.0.2.94) and port



Lazzaro                                                         [Page 6]

INTERNET-DRAFT                                           7 January 2005


(16112) of the second party.  Once the connection is established, it is
used bi-directionally: the first party sends framed RTP packets to the
second party on one direction of the connection, and the second party
sends framed RTP packets to the first party in the other direction of
the connection.

The first party also initiates an RTCP TCP connection to port 16113
(16112 + 1, as defined in [4]) of the second party.  Once the connection
is established, the first party sends framed RTCP packets to the second
party on one direction of the connection, and the second party sends
framed RTCP packets to the first party in the other direction of the
connection.


6.  Congestion Control

The RTP congestion control requirements are defined in [1].  As noted in
[1], all transport protocols used on the Internet need to address
congestion control in some way, and RTP is not an exception.

In addition, the congestion control requirements for the Audio/Video
Profile are defined in [2].  The basic congestion control requirement
defined in [2] is that RTP sessions should compete fairly with TCP flows
that share the network.  As the framing method uses TCP, it competes
fairly with other TCP flows by definition.


7.  Acknowledgements

This memo, in part, documents discussions on the AVT mailing list about
TCP and RTP.  Thanks to all of the participants in these discussions.


8.  Security Considerations

Implementors should carefully read the Security Considerations sections
of the RTP [1] and RTP/AVP [2] documents, as most of the issues
discussed in these sections directly apply to RTP streams framed over
TCP.

Session descriptions that specify connection-oriented media sessions
(such as the example session shown in Figures 3-4 of Section 5) raise
unique security concerns for streaming media.  The Security
Considerations section of [3] describes these issues in detail.

Below, we discuss security issues that are unique to the framing method
defined in Section 2.




Lazzaro                                                         [Page 7]

INTERNET-DRAFT                                           7 January 2005


Attackers may send framed packets with large LENGTH values, to exploit
security holes in applications.  For example, a C implementation may
declare a 1500-byte array as a stack variable, and use LENGTH as the
bound on the loop that reads the framed packet into the array.  This
code would work fine for friendly applications that use Etherframe-sized
RTP packets, but may be open to exploit by an attacker.  Thus, an
implementation needs to handle packets of any length, from a NULL packet
(LENGTH == 0) to the maximum-length packet holding 64K octets (LENGTH =
0xFFFF).


9.  IANA Considerations

[4] defines the syntax of session description media lines.  We reproduce
this definition in Figure 2 of Section 4 of this memo.  In Section 4, we
define a new token value for the <proto> field of media lines:
"TCP/RTP/AVP".  Section 4 specifies the semantics associated with the
<proto> field token, and Section 5 shows an example of its use in a
session description.


10.  References

10.1 Normative References

[1] Schulzrinne, H., Casner, S., Frederick, R., and V. Jacobson.
"RTP: A transport protocol for real-time applications", RFC 3550, July
2003.

[2] Schulzrinne, H., and S. Casner.  "RTP Profile for Audio and Video
Conferences with Minimal Control", RFC 3551, July 2003.

[3] Yon, D. and G. Camarillo.  Connection-Oriented Media Transport in
the Session Description Protocol (SDP),
draft-ietf-mmusic-sdp-comedia-10.txt.

[4] Handley, M., Jacobson, V., and C. Perkins.  "SDP: Session
Description Protocol", draft-ietf-mmusic-sdp-new-22.txt.

[5] Bradner, S.  "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

[6] Rosenberg, J. and H. Schulzrinne.  "An Offer/Answer Model with
SDP", RFC 3264, June 2002.

[7] C. Huitema.  "Real Time Control Protocol (RTCP) attribute in
Session Description Protocol (SDP)", RFC 3605, October 2003.




Lazzaro                                                         [Page 8]

INTERNET-DRAFT                                           7 January 2005


[8] S. Casner.  "Session Description Protocol (SDP) Bandwidth
Modifiers for RTP Control Protocol (RTCP) Bandwidth", RFC 3556, July
2003.


Authors' Address

John Lazzaro
UC Berkeley
CS Division
315 Soda Hall
Berkeley CA 94720-1776
Email: lazzaro@cs.berkeley.edu


Intellectual Property Rights Statement

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed to
pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in this
document or the extent to which any license under such rights might or
might not be available; nor does it represent that it has made any
independent effort to identify any such rights.  Information on the
procedures with respect to rights in RFC documents can be found in BCP
78 and BCP 79.

Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any
assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an attempt
made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of such
proprietary rights by implementers or users of this specification can be
obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository at
http://www.ietf.org/ipr.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights
that may cover technology that may be required to implement this
standard.  Please address the information to the IETF at ietf-
ipr@ietf.org.













Lazzaro                                                         [Page 9]

INTERNET-DRAFT                                           7 January 2005


Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2004).  This document is subject to
the rights, licenses and restrictions contained in BCP 78, and except as
set forth therein, the authors retain all their rights.

This document and the information contained herein are provided
on an "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE
REPRESENTS OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND
THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT
THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

Acknowledgement

Funding for the RFC Editor function is currently provided by the
Internet Society.
































Lazzaro                                                        [Page 10]

INTERNET-DRAFT                                           7 January 2005


Change Log for <draft-ietf-avt-rtp-framing-contrans-05.txt>

[Note to RFC Editors: this Appendix, and its Table of Contents listing,
should be removed from the final version of the memo]

Changes were made in response to Magnus's comments on AVT.

[Issue 1] I am concerned that the draft is written in a bit to AVP
centric.  I know that the draft only registers, and apparently there is
not enough consensus and interest to define any other profile for the
moment.  However the format and its basic signalling properties would be
the same independent of the profile in use.

[Response 1] Section 4 has been rewritten to be less AVP centric.  See
the first four paragraphs of Section 4.

---

[Issue 2] Section 2, second paragraph: I think the last sentence could
benefit a informative reference to RTP section A.1 for checks that can
be used to verify correct alignment.

[Response 2] New text similar to that recommended by Magnus has been
added to the final paragraph of Section 2.

---

[Issue 3] Section 3, the first Undefined property: "The framing method
is commonly used for sending a single RTP or RTCP stream over a
connection.  However, Section 2 does not define this common use as
normative, so that (for example) a memo that defines an RTP SSRC
multiplexing protocol may use the framing method."

The expected property must be that any contrans supports usage of
multiple SSRCs.  The behavior to expect needs to be the same for RTP
over UDP and RTP over TCP.  What comes in on the TCP connection, can be
the same as what can come in over UDP port in unicast mode from a single
source.  The difference between TCP and UDP is really only that you
can't receive from multiple sources to the same port as I understand the
signalling.

I would like to rephrase and move the paragraph.  It should define the
expected properties in this case for clarity.

[Response 3] Section 3 has been renamed as "Packet Stream Properties".
It begins with the list of unspecified properties, which no longer
includes the property discussed in Issue 3.  Following this list of
unspecified properties is the following text:



Lazzaro                                                        [Page 11]

INTERNET-DRAFT                                           7 January 2005


  In one respect, the framing protocol does specify a property above
  the level of a single packet.  If a direction of a connection carries
  RTP packets, the streams carried in this direction MUST support the
  use of multiple SSRCs in those RTP packets.  If a direction of a
  connection carries RTCP packets, the streams carried in this direction
  MUST support the use of multiple SSRCs in those RTCP packets.

---

[Issue 4] Section 4.  I think the signaling section should clearly
define that the basic procedure for establishing the TCP connection that
the RTP framing is sent over is using COMEDIA.  This should be in the
first paragraph.

For example a sentence like: The transport of RTP/AVP over TCP when
signaled using SDP and the offer/answer method [RFC3264] SHALL establish
its TCP connection as defined by comedia [xx].  The RTP/AVP over TCP is
identified in SDP using the "proto" identifier "TCP/RTP/AVP".

For this SDP "proto" identifier the fmt list ...

I would also like to point out that due to comedia it doesn't seem that
this framing method can be used in any non Offer/Answer usage.  Or have
I missed something in the comedia draft?

[Response 4]  Done, see the first four paragraphs of Section 4.

---

[Issue 5] Section 4, second last paragraph: "The RTP stream MUST have an
unbroken sequence number order.  RTCP stream packets MUST appear as
defined in [2], with no lost or re-ordered packets.  IETF standards-
track documents MAY loosen these restrictions on packet loss and packet
ordering."

This paragraph is in contradiction with a statement in section 3.  I
also think that it is wrong to make this requirement on the packets
entering the TCP connection.

[Response 5] I deleted the offending paragraph.  So, the statement in
Section 3 on the topic holds for RTP/AVP by default.

---

[Issue 6] What is meant with the following sentence in section 4: "The
out-of-band semantics for the connection MUST comply with [3]."  I don't
think it is clear what is meant with out-of-band semantics.




Lazzaro                                                        [Page 12]

INTERNET-DRAFT                                           7 January 2005


[Response 6] I deleted the offending sentence.  Note that the new text
at the start of Section 4 (described in "Response 4" earlier) makes the
point I was trying to make in this sentence.

---

[Issue 7] Section 4.  Does this section also need to define the usage of
the "a=rtcp" SDP attribute under this profile.  Because I think there
are advantages of being able to define another TCP port for RTCP than
the RTP port + 1.

[Response 7] Normative reference to RFC 3605 was added to the document,
which is referenced in the second-to-last paragraph of Section 4.

---

[Issue 8] Section 4, which method are used to indicate the non-presence
of RTCP when using this transport?

[Response 8] A mechanism was added, described in the final 3 paragraphs
of Section 4.  If a different mechanism is desired, please submit
replacement paragraphs that describe the candidate mechanism, so that
upon WG approval, we can quickly insert it into the document.

---

[Issue 9] Section 8.  The Length field consideration.  I think one can
be a bit more direct in the recommendation.  I would like to add this
following sentence to the end of the paragraph: "Thus, a implementation
needs to handle packets of any length from the NULL packet (Length=0) to
max length 64K packet (Length=0xFFFF).

[Response 9] Done.

---

[Issue 10] The lack of recommendations on how to register more
identifiers for other profiles and what they would need to consider.

[Response 10] I believe this is now covered in the early part of Section
4.

---








Lazzaro                                                        [Page 13]

