

DNSEXT Working Group                                        S. Coffey
INTERNET-DRAFT                                              S. Strain
Category: Best Current Practice     Theale Volunteer Networking Group
February 22, 2001                                           L. Esibov
Expires: August 22, 2001                                    Microsoft
                                                            
Filename: draft-coffeystrain-dnsext-privatednstld-00.txt


            DNS Top Level Domain For Private Networks 
 
 
    
   This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with 
   all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026. 

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as
   Internet-Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
   months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
   documents at any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-
   Drafts as reference material or to cite them other than as
   "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

    
    
Copyright Notice 
 
   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved. 
    
    
Abstract 
    
   The document outlines the use of a top level DNS domain ".pri", for 
   use within private networks.   
    
   A reserved top level domain would allow private domain names to be 
   chosen that would not conflict with current or future registered 
   public domain names. 






Coffey, Strain and Esibov                                     [Page 1]

                     DNS TLD For Private Networks        February 2001

    
1. Introduction 
    
   Increasingly, private networks require a domain name service for 
   both private and public (internet) domain names. However, it is not 
   required or desirable for the private namespace to be accessible 
   from outside the private network.   A reserved top level domain 
   would allow a private namespace to be defined that would not 
   conflict with current or future registered public domain names.  
       

    
2. Current Common Practice in private network domain names selection 
    
   Currently, common practice when selecting a private network domain 
   name follows one of two unsatisfactory paths: 
    
   (i) Use of registered public domain name 
    
   A private DNS server is configured as authoritative for the 
   registered domain name, in addition to the existing public facing 
   authoritative name server(s). 
    
   The private server holds the "private version" of the registered 
   domain, and delegates to subdomains as necessary. 
    
   This requires two different versions of a single zone, in 
   contravention of RFC1034. This can also lead to practical problems 
   if a DNS query from a server on the private network to a public name 
   server returns additional information regarding names in the "public 
   version" of the registered zone. 
    
   (ii) Use of an unregistered domain name 
    
   An unregistered domain name is chosen for the private network, for 
   example a company with a registered domain "acme.com" might choose 
   "acme.net" for the private network. 
    
   This avoids the problems of using a registered domain name, yet may 
   conflict with a future reservation of the domain chosen. 
    
    
    
3. Using a Reserved Top Level Domain for private network domain names  
    
    
   A reserved top level domain name, ".pri", would allow a private 
   domain name to be chosen safely with no risk of conflict with 
   current or future registered domain names. 
    
   A private DNS server is configured as authoritative for the ".pri" 
   domain, and delegates the private subdomains as appropriate. 
    

Coffey, Strain and Esibov                                     [Page 2]

                     DNS TLD For Private Networks        February 2001


   Use of a private domain naming scheme based on a consistent top 
   level domain also allows multiple trusted private networks to 
   integrate their domain naming schemes simply by merging and 
   synchronizing the ".pri" zone. 
    
   Use of a clearly private domain name also can provide a clear 
   distinction to users and applications between trusted private hosts 
   and untrusted public hosts. 
     
    
   For example,  Acme Corp may choose  "acme.pri" for their private 
   domain name.   They configure their DNS server to be authority for 
   ".pri" and "acme.pri", whilst all domains outside of the ".pri" 
   domain will be resolved via public DNS servers.  Should Acme Corp 
   wish to make its private domain names accessible to Cowboy Corp, who 
   use the private domain "cowboy.pri", then the two organizations 
   simply merge and synchronize their ".pri" zones.


    
4. Existing Reserved Top Level Domains 
    
   Existing reserved top level domains are described in RFC2606. 

    
    
5. IANA Considerations 
    
   To enable the use of the domain ".pri" as described, authors will
   request from IANA reservation of the ".pri" top level domain. 

    

6. Security Considerations

   This draft does not introduce any additional security concerns.


    
7. Request for Comments 
    
   Please send comments by e-mail to: 
   sicoffey@yahoo.com and levone@microsoft.com,
   cc: sandy.strain@integralis.com 









Coffey, Strain and Esibov                                     [Page 3]

                     DNS TLD For Private Networks        February 2001

    
    
    
8. References 
    
   [RFC 1034] Mockapetris, P., "Domain names - concepts and facilities"  
              STD 13, RFC 1034, November 1987. 
    
   [RFC 1035] Mockapetris, P., "Domain names - implementation and  
              specification" 
              STD 13, RFC 1035, November 1987. 
    
   [RFC 1591] Postel, J., "Domain Name System Structure and Delegation" 
              RFC 1591, March 1994. 
    
   [RFC 2606] Eastlake & Panitz, "Reserved Top Level DNS Names" 
              BCP32, RFC 2606, June 1999. 
    


9. Authors' Addresses 

      Simon Coffey 
      c/o Integralis Ltd 
      Brunel Rd 
      Theale 
      READING  
      UK 
      EMail: sicoffey@yahoo.com 
    
    
      Sandy Strain 
      c/o Integralis Ltd 
      Brunel Rd 
      Theale 
      READING  
      UK 
      EMail: sandy.strain@integralis.com 
      Phone: +44 118 930 6060


      Levon Esibov
      Microsoft Corporation
      One Microsoft Way
      Redmond, WA 98052
      EMail: levone@microsoft.com
    







Coffey, Strain and Esibov                                     [Page 4]

                     DNS TLD For Private Networks        February 2001


10.  Intellectual Property Statement

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed to  pertain
to the implementation or use of the technology described in this
document or the extent to which any license under such rights might or
might not be available; neither does it represent that it has made any
effort to identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's
procedures with respect to rights in standards-track and standards-
related documentation can be found in BCP-11.  Copies of claims of
rights made available for publication and any assurances of licenses to
be made available, or the result of an attempt made to obtain a general
license or permission for the use of such proprietary rights by
implementors or users of this specification can be obtained from the
IETF Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights
which may cover technology that may be required to practice this
standard.  Please address the information to the IETF Executive
Director.


11.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.
This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.  The limited permissions granted above are
perpetual and will not be revoked by the Internet Society or its
successors or assigns.  This document and the information contained
herein is provided on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE
INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."

10.  Expiration Date

This memo is filed as <draft-coffeystrain-dnsext-privatednstld-00.txt>,
and  expires on August 22, 2001.



Coffey, Strain and Esibov                                     [Page 5]