Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                     Definitions of Managed Objects
                        for Frame Relay Service

                      Wed Nov  5 13:39:59 EST 1997


                   draft-ieft-frnetmib-frs-mib-02.txt

                         David Fowler (editor)
                           Newbridge Networks
                          davef@newbridge.com



Status of this Memo

   This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
   documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its Areas,
   and its Working Groups. Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

   To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
   ``1id-abstracts.txt'' listing contained in the Internet- Drafts
   Shadow Directories on ftp.is.co.za (Africa), nic.nordu.net (Europe),
   munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim), ds.internic.net (US East Coast), or
   ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast).

Abstract

   This memo defines an extension to the Management Information Base
   (MIB) for use with network management protocols in TCP/IP-based
   internets.  In particular, it defines objects for managing the Frame
   Relay Service.

   This memo does not specify a standard for the Internet community.

   This document entirely replaces RFC 1604.




Expires May 1998                                                [Page 1]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


1.  The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework


   The SNMP Network Management Framework presently consists of three
   major components.  They are:

   o    the SMI, described in RFC 1902 [1] - the mechanisms used for
        describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.

   o    the MIB-II, STD 17, RFC 1213 [2] - the core set of managed
        objects for the Internet suite of protocols.

   o    the protocol, RFC 1157 [3] and/or RFC 1905 [4], - the protocol
        for accessing managed objects.

   The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the
   purpose of experimentation and evaluation.





























Expires May 1998                                                [Page 2]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


2.  Object Definitions

   Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed
   the Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are
   defined using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1)
   defined in the SMI.  In particular, each object type is named by an
   OBJECT IDENTIFIER, an administratively assigned name.  The object
   type together with an object instance serves to uniquely identify a
   specific instantiation of the object.  For human convenience, we
   often use a textual string, termed the descriptor, to refer to the
   object type.

2.1.  Changes from RFC 1604

   The changes from RFC 1604 are the following:

        (1)  This MIB works for switches too.  Read-writable
             versions of a number of frLport and frVCSig objects
             were created to allow this.

        (2)  frPVCEndptInDiscards was clarified.  Congestion
             discards are not counted.

        (3)  Descriptions were added for the values of
             frPVCEndptRcvdSigStatus.

        (4)  An additonal instance of frPVCEndptRcvdSigStatus was
             added to the Connect Status Change Trap.  There is now
             one for each endpoint.

        (5)  ifLinkUpDownTrapEnable is now recommended to be on.

        (6)  frVCSigProced was slightly unclear.  The values are
             clarified along with associated counter definitions.

        (7)  The behaviour of the PVC statuses and the Endpt Sig
             Statuses are clarified when an underlying layer fails.

        (8)  frPVCConnectIndexValue was added.

        (9)  An ifStackTable example was added.

        (10) Additional counters for PVCs were added.

        (11) Names for PVCs were added.


Expires May 1998                                                [Page 3]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


        (12) Addition of Service Level Aggrement counters













































Expires May 1998                                                [Page 4]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


3.  Overview

   These objects are used when the particular media being used to manage
   is Frame Relay Service.  At present, this applies to these values of
   the ifType variable in the Internet-standard MIB:

        frameRelayService (44)

   This section provides an overview and background of how to use this
   MIB and other potential MIBs when managing a Frame Relay Service.

   Figure 1 shows the MIB stack that could be followed for managing a
   Frame Relay Service.  This is only an example and not meant to be
   inclusive.
         ____________________________________________________
         |              |              |       |            |
         |              |              | SIP   |  RFC1490   |
         |              | X.25 MIB     | Relay | (no applic.|
         |              | for IW/Encap.| MIB   |  MIB)      |
         |              |              |       |            |
         |    MIB II    |-----------------------------------|
         |              |                                   |
         |   ifTable    |      Frame Relay Service MIB      |
         |  ifXTable    |                                   |
         | ifStackTable |___________________________________|
         |              |                         |         |
         |              | Physical Layer MIBs     | ATM MIB |
         |              |  e.g., DS1/E1 MIB,      |---------|
         |              |  RS232-like MIB         | Phy.    |
         |              |                         | Layer   |
         |              |                         |  MIB    |
         |--------------|-------------------------|---------|


              Figure 1. Frame Relay MIB Architecture



3.1.  Scope of MIB

The Frame Relay Service MIB will only manage the Frame Relay portion of
the network.  This MIB is based upon the Customer Network Management
concepts presented in the document "Service Management Architecture for
Virtual Connection Services" [6].


Expires May 1998                                                [Page 5]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


This MIB will NOT be implemented on User Equipment (e.g., DTE), and the
Frame Relay DTE MIB (RFC2115[8]) should be used to manage those devices.
Concentrators may also use this MIB instead of the Frame Relay DTE MIB.

Frame Relay Service MIB is intended to be used for Customer Network
Management (CNM) of a Frame Relay Network Service.  It provides
information that allows end-customers to obtain performance monitoring,
fault detection, and configuration information about their Frame Relay
Service.  It is an implementation decision as to whether this MIB is
used to create/delete/modify PVCs and to turn PVCs on or off.

By using this and other related MIBs, a customer's NMS can monitor their
PVCs and UNI/NNI logical ports.  Internal aspects of the network (e.g.,
switching elements, line cards, and network routing tables) are outside
the scope of this MIB.  The Customer's NMS will typically access the
SNMP proxy-agent within the Frame Relay network using SNMP over UDP over
IP with IP encapsulated in Frame Relay according to RFC1490/ANSI T1.617
Annex F.  The customer, thus, has a PVC to the SNMP proxy-agent.
Alternate access mechanisms and SNMP agent implementations are possible.
The service capabilities include retrieving information and receiving
TRAPs.  It is beyond the scope of this MIB to define managed objects to
monitor the physical layer.  Existing physical layer MIBs (e.g., DS1
MIB) and MIB II will be used as possible.  The Frame Relay Service SNMP
MIB for CNM will not contain any managed objects to monitor the physical
layer.  This MIB primarily addresses Frame Relay PVCs.  This MIB may be
extended at a later time to handle Frame Relay SVCs.

This MIB is only used to manage a single Frame Relay Service offering
from one network.  This MIB will typically be implemented on a service
provider's SNMP proxy-agent. The SNMP proxy-agent proxies for all Frame
Relay equipment within one service provider's Frame Relay network.
(Other SNMP agent implementations are not precluded.)  Therefore, this
MIB models a PVC segment through one Frame Relay Network.  See Figure 2.
If the customer's PVCs traverse multiple networks, then the customer
needs to poll multiple network proxy-agents within each Frame Relay
Network to retrieve their end-to-end view of their service.  See Figure
2 and the Service Management Architecture [6].









Expires May 1998                                                [Page 6]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                +-------------------------------------+
                | Customer Network Management Station |
                |            (SNMP based)             |
                +-------------------------------------+
                    ^              ^               ^
                    |              |               |
                    |              |               |
           UNI      |      NNI     |       NNI     |       UNI
            |       ^       |      ^        |      ^
            | +-----------+ | +-----------+ | +-----------+ |
            | |           | | |           | | |           | |
Originating | |   FR      | | |   FR      | | |   FR      | |Terminating
 +--------+ | | Network I | | | Network J | | | Network K | | +--------+
 |        | | |           | | |           | | |           | | |        |
 |        |---|           |---|           |---|           |---| User B |
 |        | | |           | | |           | | |           | | |        |
 |     ////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////    |
 |        | | |           | | |           | | |           | | |        |
 +--------+ | +-----------+ | +-----------+ | +-----------+ | +--------+
            |               |               |               |
            |               |               |               |
            | PVC Segment 1 | PVC Segment 2 | PVC Segment 3 |
            |<------------->|<------------->|<------------->|
            |                                               |
            |              Multi-network PVC                |
            |<--------------------------------------------->|
            |  NNI = Network-to Network Interface           |
               UNI = User-to-Network Interface

                         Figure 2. Multi-network PVC



   Also, since the Frame Relay network is a shared network amongst many
   Frame Relay subscribers, each subscriber will only have access to
   their information (e.g., information with respect to their interfaces
   and PVCs).  Therefore, in order to provide this capability, the Frame
   Relay PVC CNM proxy agent should be able to support instance level
   granularity for MIB views.  See the Service Management Architecture.







Expires May 1998                                                [Page 7]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


3.2.  Frame Relay Service MIB Terminology

   Access Channel - An access channel generically refers to the DS1/E1
   or DS3/E3-based UNI access channel or NNI access channel across which
   frame relay data transits. An access channel is the access pathway
   for a single stream of user data.

   Within a given T1 line, an access channel can denote any one of the
   following:

    o    Unchannelized T1 - the entire T1 line is considered an access
         channel. Each access channel is comprised of 24 T1 time slots.

    o    Channelized T1 - an access channel is any one of 24 channels.
         Each access channel is comprised of a single T1 time slot.

    o    Fractional T1 - an access channel is a grouping of N T1 time
         slots (NX56/64 Kbps, where N = 1-23 T1 Time slots per FT1 Access
         Channel) that may be assigned in consecutive or non-consecutive
         order.

   Within a given E1 line, a channel can denote any one of the following:

    o    Unchannelized E1 - the entire E1 line is considered a single
         access channel.  Each access channel is comprised of 31 E1 time
         slots.

    o    Channelized E1 - an access channel is any one of 31 channels.
         Each access channel is comprised of a single E1 time slot.

    o    Fractional E1 - an access channel is a grouping of N E1 time
         slots (NX64 Kbps, where N = 1-30 E1 time slots per FE1 access
         channel) that may be assigned in consecutive or non-consecutive
         order.

   Within a given unformatted line, the entire unformatted line is
   considered an access channel. Examples include RS-232, V.35, V.36 and
   X.21 (non- switched), and unframed Ei (G.703 without G.704).

   Access Rate - The data rate of the access channel, expressed in
   bits/second.  The speed of the user access channel determines how
   rapidly the end user can inject data into the network.

   Bc - The Committed Burst Size (Bc) is the maximum amount of
   subscriber data (expressed in bits) that the network agrees to


Expires May 1998                                                [Page 8]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


   transfer, under normal conditions, during a time interval Tc.

   Be - The Excess Burst Size (Be) is the maximum amount of subscriber
   data (expressed in bits) in excess of Bc that the network will
   attempt to deliver during the time interval Tc.  This data (Be) is
   delivered in general with a lower probability than Bc.

   CIR - The Committed Information Rate (CIR) is the subscriber data
   rate (expressed in bits/second) that the network commits to deliver
   under normal network conditions.  CIR is averaged over the time
   interval Tc (CIR = Bc/Tc).

   DLCI - Data Link Connection Identifier

   Logical Port - This term is used to model the Frame Relay "interface"
   on a device.

   NNI - Network to Network Interface

   Permanent Virtual Connection (PVC) - A virtual connection that has
   its end-points and bearer capabilities defined at subscription time.

   Time slot (E1) - An octet within the 256-bit information field in
   each E1 frame is defined as a time slot. Time slots are position
   sensitive within the 256-bit information field. Fractional E1 service
   is provided in contiguous or non-contiguous time slot increments.

   Time slot (T1) - An octet within the 192-bit information field in
   each T1 frame is defined as a time slot. Time slots are position
   sensitive within the 192-bit information field. Fractional T1 service
   is provided in contiguous or non-contiguous time slot increments.

   UNI - User to Network Interface

   N391 - Full status (status of all PVCs) polling counter

   N392 - Error threshold

   N393 - Monitored events count

   T391 - Link integrity verification polling timer

   T392 - Polling verification timer

   nT3 - Status enquiry timer


Expires May 1998                                                [Page 9]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


   nN3 - Maximum status enquiry counter

3.3.  Apply MIB II to a Frame Relay Service


3.3.1.  System Group

   Use the System Group to apply to the SNMP proxy-agent, since the
   proxy-agent may be monitoring many Frame Relay devices in one
   network.  System Group applies to only one system.  This group is not
   instantiated.

   sysDescr:  ASCII string describing the SNMP proxy-agent.
              Can be up to 255 characters long. This field is
              generally used to indicate the network providers
              identification and type of service offered.

   sysObjectID:  Unique OBJECT IDENTIFIER (OID) for the SNMP
                 proxy-agent.

   sysUpTime:  Clock in the SNMP proxy-agent; TimeTicks
               in 1/100s of a second.  Elapsed type since
               the proxy-agent came on line.

   sysContact:  Contact for the SNMP proxy-agent.
                ASCII string of up to 255 characters.

   sysName:  Domain name of the SNMP proxy-agent, for example,
             acme.com

   sysLocation:  Location of the SNMP proxy-agent.
                 ASCII string of up to 255 characters.

   sysServices:  Services of the managed device.  The value "2",
                 which implies that
                 the Frame Relay network is providing
                 a subnetwork level service, is recommended.


3.3.2.  Interfaces Table (ifTable, ifXtable)

This specifies how the Interfaces Group defined in MIB II shall be used
for the management of Frame Relay based interfaces, and in conjunction
with the Frame Relay Service MIB module. This memo assumes the
interpretation of the evolution of the Interfaces group to be in


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 10]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


accordance with: "The interfaces table (ifTable) contains information on
the managed resource's interfaces.  Each sub- layer below the
internetwork layer of a network interface is considered an interface."
Thus, the ifTable allows the following Frame Relay-based interfaces to
be represented as table entries:

- Frame Relay interfaces in the Frame Relay equipment (e.g.,
  switches, routers or networks) with Frame Relay interfaces.
  This level is concerned with generic frame counts and
  not with individual virtual connections.

In accordance with the guidelines of ifTable, frame counts per virtual
connection are not covered by ifTable, and are considered interface
specific and covered in the Frame Relay Service MIB module.  In order to
interrelate the ifEntries properly, the Interfaces Stack Group shall be
supported.

Some specific interpretations of ifTable for Frame Relay follow.

 Object                 Use for the generic Frame Relay layer
 ======                 =============================================
 ifIndex                Each Frame Relay port is represented by an
                        ifEntry.

 ifDescr                Description of the Frame Relay interface.
                        ASCII string describing the UNI/NNI logical
                        port.  Can be up to 255 characters long.

 ifType                 The value allocated for Frame Relay Service
                        is equal to 44.

 ifMtu                  Set to maximum frame size in octets for this
                        frame relay logical port.

 ifSpeed                Peak bandwidth in bits per second available
                        for use. This could be the speed of the
                        logical port and not the access rate. Actual
                        user information transfer rate (i.e., access
                        rate) of the UNI or NNI logical port in bits
                        per second (this is not the clocking speed).
                        For example, it is 1,536,000 bits per second
                        for a DS1-based UNI/NNI logical port and
                        1,984,000 bits per second for an E1-based
                        UNI/NNI logical port.


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 11]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


 ifPhysAddress          The primary address for this logical port
                        assigned by the Frame Relay interface
                        provider.  An octet string of zero length if
                        no address is used for this logical port.


 ifAdminStatus          The desired administrative status of the
                        frame relay logical port.

 ifOperStatus           The current operational status of the Frame
                        Relay UNI or NNI logical port.

 ifLastChange           The value of sysUptime at the last
                        re-initialization of the logical port.  The
                        value of sysUpTime at the time the logical
                        port entered its current operational state.
                        If the current state was entered prior to the
                        last re-initialization of the local network
                        management subsystem, then this object
                        contains a zero value.

 ifInOctets             The number of received octets.  This counter
                        only counts octets from the beginning of the
                        frame relay header field to the end of user
                        data.

 ifInUcastPkts          The number of received unerrored, unicast
                        frames.

 ifInDiscards           The number of received frames discarded.
                        Specifically, frames discarded due to ingress
                        buffer congestion and traffic policing.

 ifInErrors             The number of received frames that are
                        discarded because of an error. Specifically,
                        frames that are too long or too short, frames
                        that are not a multiple of 8 bits in length,
                        frames with an invalid or unrecognized DLCI,
                        frames with an abort sequence, frames with
                        improper flag delimitation,and frame that
                        fail FCS.

 ifInUnknownProtos      The number of packets discarded because of an
                        unknown or unsupported protocol.  For Frame
                        Relay Service interfaces, this counter will


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 12]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                        always be zero.

 ifOutOctets            The number of transmitted octets.  This
                        counter only counts octets from the beginning
                        of the frame relay header field to the end of
                        user data.

 ifOutUcastpkts         The number of unerrored, unicast frames sent.

 ifOutDiscards          The number of frames discarded in the egress
                        direction. Possible reasons are as follows:
                        policing, congestion.

 ifOutErrors            The number of frames discarded in the egress
                        direction because of an error. Specifically,
                        frames that are aborted due to a transmitter
                        underrun.

 ifName                 This variable is not applicable for Frame
                        Relay Service interfaces, therefore, this
                        variable contains a zero-length string.

 ifInMulticastPkts      The number of received unerrored, multicast
                        frames.

 ifInBroadcastPkts      This variable is not applicable for Frame
                        Relay Service interfaces, therefore, this
                        counter is always zero.

 ifOutMulticastPkts     The number of sent unerrored, multicast
                        frames.

 ifOutBroadcastPkts     This variable is not applicable for Frame
                        Relay Service interfaces, therefore, this
                        counter is always zero.

 ifHCInOctets           Only used for DS3-based (and greater) Frame
                        Relay logical ports.  The number of received
                        octets.  This counter only counts octets
                        from the beginning of the frame relay header
                        field to the end of user data.

 ifHCOutOctets          Only used for DS3-based (and greater) Frame
                        Relay logical ports.  The number of
                        transmitted octets.  This counter only counts


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 13]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                        octets from the beginning of the frame relay
                        header field to the end of user data.

 ifLinkUpDownTrapEnable Set to true(1).  It is recommended that the
                        underlying physical layer traps be disabled
                        since both are not required.  Traps are
                        enabled at the frame relay service layer
                        specifically because PVC traps are not to be
                        sent if the frame relay interface fails.
                        Without a linkUp/linkDown trap, the
                        management station would receive no
                        notification of the failure.

 ifHighSpeed            Set to the user data rate of the frame relay
                        logical port in millions of bits per second.
                        If the user data rate is less than 1 Mbps,
                        then this value is zero.

 ifPromiscuousMode      Set to false(2).

 ifConnectorPresent     Set to false(2).




Frame Relay Network Service interfaces support the Interface Stack
Group.  Frame Relay Network Service interfaces do not support any other
groups or objects in the Interfaces group of MIB II.  Also, supporting
the SNMP Group of MIB II is an implementation choice.


3.3.3.  Stack Table for DS1/E1 Environment   This section describes by
example how to use ifStackTable to represent the relationship of
frameRelay Service to ds0 and ds0Bundles with ds1 interfaces. [10]

Example: A Frame Relay Service is being carried on 4 ds0s of a ds1.

     +---------------------+
     | Frame Relay Service |
     +---------------------+
                |
     +---------------------+
     | ds0Bundle           |
     +---------------------+
       |     |     |     |


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 14]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


     +---+ +---+ +---+ +---+
     |ds0| |ds0| |ds0| |ds0|
     +---+ +---+ +---+ +---+
       |     |     |     |
     +---------------------+
     | ds1                 |
     +---------------------+

The assignment of the index values could for example be:

        ifIndex  Description
        1        FrameRelayService (type 44)
        2        ds0Bundle         (type 82)
        3        ds0 #1            (type 81)
        4        ds0 #2            (type 81)
        5        ds0 #3            (type 81)
        6        ds0 #4            (type 81)
        7        ds1               (type 18)

The ifStackTable is then used to show the relationships between the
various interfaces.

        ifStackTable Entries

        HigherLayer   LowerLayer
        0             1
        1             2
        2             3
        2             4
        2             5
        2             6
        3             7
        4             7
        5             7
        6             7
        7             0


In the case where the frameRelayService is using a single ds0, then the
ds0Bundle is not required.

     +---------------------+
     | Frame Relay Service |
     +---------------------+
       |


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 15]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


     +---+
     |ds0|
     +---+
       |
     +---------------------+
     | ds1                 |
     +---------------------+

The assignment of the index values could for example be:

        ifIndex  Description
        1        FrameRelayService (type 44)
        2        ds0               (type 81)
        3        ds1               (type 18)

The ifStackTable is then used to show the relationships between the
various interfaces.

        ifStackTable Entries

        HigherLayer   LowerLayer
        0             1
        1             2
        2             3
        3             0





















Expires May 1998                                               [Page 16]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


3.3.4.  Stack Table for V.35 Environments

This section describes by example how to use ifStackTable to represent
the relationship of frameRelay with V.35 interfaces.

     +---------------------+
     | Frame Relay Service |
     +---------------------+
                |
     +---------------------+
     | v35                 |
     +---------------------+

The assignment of the index values could for example be:

        ifIndex  Description
        1        FrameRelayService (type 44)
        2        v35               (type 33)

Note type 33 (RS232-like MIB) is used instead of type 45 (V.35).  V35
does not pertain to this environment.

The ifStackTable is then used to show the relationships between the
various interfaces.

        ifStackTable Entries

        HigherLayer   LowerLayer
        0             1
        1             2
        2             0















Expires May 1998                                               [Page 17]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


4.  Object Definitions

 FRNETSERV-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

 IMPORTS
               MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE,
               NOTIFICATION-TYPE, transmission,
               Counter32, Integer32                    FROM SNMPv2-SMI
               DisplayString, TimeStamp, RowStatus     FROM SNMPv2-TC
               MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP,
               NOTIFICATION-GROUP                      FROM SNMPv2-CONF
               InterfaceIndex, ifIndex                 FROM IF-MIB;


          frnetservMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
              LAST-UPDATED "9611160500Z"
              ORGANIZATION "IETF Frame Relay Service MIB Working Group"
              CONTACT-INFO
                "        David Fowler

                 Postal: Newbridge Networks Corporation
                         600 March Road
                         Kanata, Ontario, Canada K2K 2E6

                         Tel: +1 613 591 3600
                         Fax: +1 613 599 3669

                 E-mail: davef@newbridge.com"
              DESCRIPTION
                   "The MIB module to describe generic objects for
                    Frame Relay Network Service."

              ::= { transmission 44 }

              frnetservObjects  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { frnetservMIB 1 }
              frnetservTraps    OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { frnetservMIB 2 }










Expires May 1998                                               [Page 18]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          -- The Frame Relay Service Logical Port Group

          --  the Frame Relay Logical Port Group
          --  This table is an interface specific addendum
          --  to the generic ifTable from MIB-II.

          frLportTable OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  SEQUENCE OF FrLportEntry
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The Frame Relay Logical Port Information table."
              ::= { frnetservObjects 1 }

          frLportEntry OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  FrLportEntry
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "An entry in the Frame Relay Logical Port
                      Information table."
              INDEX   { ifIndex }
              ::= { frLportTable 1 }

          FrLportEntry ::=
              SEQUENCE {
                  frLportNumPlan            INTEGER,
                  frLportContact            DisplayString,
                  frLportLocation           DisplayString,
                  frLportType               INTEGER,
                  frLportAddrDLCILen        INTEGER,
                  frLportVCSigProtocol      INTEGER,
                  frLportVCSigPointer       OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
                  frLportDLCIIndexValue     Integer32,
                  frLportTypeRW             INTEGER,
                  frLportVCSigProtocolRW    INTEGER,
                  frLportVCSigPointerRW     OBJECT IDENTIFIER
          }

          frLportNumPlan OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER {
                        other(1),
                        e164(2),
                        x121(3),
                        none(4)


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 19]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                      }
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the network
                      address numbering plan for this UNI/NNI logical
                      port. The network address is the object
                      ifPhysAddress. The value none implies that there
                      is no ifPhysAddress.  The SNMP proxy-agent will
                      return an octet string of zero length for
                      ifPhysAddress. The value other means that an
                      address has been assigned to this interface, but
                      the numbering plan is not enumerated here."
              ::= { frLportEntry 1 }

          frLportContact OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  DisplayString (SIZE(0..255))
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the network
                      contact for this UNI/NNI logical port."
              ::= { frLportEntry 2 }

          frLportLocation OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  DisplayString (SIZE(0..255))
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the Frame
                      Relay network location for this UNI/NNI logical
                      port."
              ::= { frLportEntry 3 }

          frLportType OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER {
                        uni(1),
                        nni(2)
                      }
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the type of
                      network interface for this logical port."
              ::= { frLportEntry 4 }


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 20]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          frLportAddrDLCILen OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER {
                        twoOctets10Bits(1),
                        threeOctets10Bits(2),
                        threeOctets16Bits(3),
                        fourOctets17Bits(4),
                        fourOctets23Bits(5)
                      }
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the Q.922
                      Address field length and DLCI length for this
                      UNI/NNI logical port."
              ::= { frLportEntry 5 }

          frLportVCSigProtocol OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER {
                        none(1),
                        lmi(2),
                        ansiT1617D(3),
                        ansiT1617B(4),
                        ccittQ933A(5)
                      }
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the Local
                      In-Channel Signaling Protocol that is used for
                      this frame relay UNI/NNI logical port."
              ::= { frLportEntry 6 }

          frLportVCSigPointer OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  OBJECT IDENTIFIER
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is used as a pointer to
                      the table that contains the Local In-Channel
                      Signaling Protocol parameters and errors for this
                      UNI/NNI logical port.  See the Frame Relay
                      Management VC Signaling Parameters and Errors
                      Group."
              ::= { frLportEntry 7 }


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 21]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          frLportDLCIIndexValue OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Integer32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "This object contains an appropriate value to be
                      used for frPVCEndptDLCIIndex when creating entries
                      in the frPVCEndptTable.  The value 0 indicates
                      that no unassigned entries are available.  To
                      obtain the frPVCEndptDLCIIndex value for a new
                      entry, the manager issues a management protocol
                      retrieval operation to obtain the current value of
                      this object.  After each retrieval, the agent
                      should modify the value to the next unassigned
                      index."
              ::= { frLportEntry 8 }

          frLportTypeRW OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER {
                        uni(1),
                        nni(2)
                      }
              MAX-ACCESS  read-write
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object desired identifies the
                      type of network interface for this logical port."
              ::= { frLportEntry 9 }

          frLportVCSigProtocolRW OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER {
                        none(1),
                        lmi(2),
                        ansiT1617D(3),
                        ansiT1617B(4),
                        ccittQ933A(5)
                      }
              MAX-ACCESS  read-write
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the desired
                      Local In-Channel Signaling Protocol that is used
                      for this frame relay UNI/NNI logical port.  This
                      value must be made the activie protocol as soon as
                      possible on the device."


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 22]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


              ::= { frLportEntry 10 }

          frLportVCSigPointerRW OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  OBJECT IDENTIFIER
              MAX-ACCESS  read-write
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is used as the desired
                      value of a pointer to the table that contains the
                      Local In-Channel Signaling Protocol parameters and
                      errors for this UNI/NNI logical port.  See the
                      Frame Relay Management VC Signaling Parameters and
                      Errors Group.  This value must be made active as
                      soon as possible on the device."
              ::= { frLportEntry 11 }































Expires May 1998                                               [Page 23]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          -- the Frame Relay Management VC Signaling Group

          -- This Group contains managed objects for the
          -- Local In-Channel Signaling Parameters and
          -- for signaling errors.

          frMgtVCSigTable OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  SEQUENCE OF FrMgtVCSigEntry
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The Frame Relay Management VC Signaling
                      Parameters and Errors table."
              ::= { frnetservObjects 2 }

          frMgtVCSigEntry OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  FrMgtVCSigEntry
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "An entry in the Frame Relay Management VC
                      Signaling Parameters Errors table."
              INDEX   { ifIndex }
              ::= { frMgtVCSigTable 1 }

          FrMgtVCSigEntry ::=
              SEQUENCE {
                  frMgtVCSigProced             INTEGER,
                  frMgtVCSigUserN391           INTEGER,
                  frMgtVCSigUserN392           INTEGER,
                  frMgtVCSigUserN393           INTEGER,
                  frMgtVCSigUserT391           INTEGER,
                  frMgtVCSigNetN392            INTEGER,
                  frMgtVCSigNetN393            INTEGER,
                  frMgtVCSigNetT392            INTEGER,
                  frMgtVCSigNetnN4             INTEGER,
                  frMgtVCSigNetnT3             INTEGER,
                  frMgtVCSigUserLinkRelErrors  Counter32,
                  frMgtVCSigUserProtErrors     Counter32,
                  frMgtVCSigUserChanInactive   Counter32,
                  frMgtVCSigNetLinkRelErrors   Counter32,
                  frMgtVCSigNetProtErrors      Counter32,
                  frMgtVCSigNetChanInactive    Counter32,
                  frMgtVCSigProcedRW           INTEGER,
                  frMgtVCSigUserN391RW         INTEGER,


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 24]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                  frMgtVCSigUserN392RW         INTEGER,
                  frMgtVCSigUserN393RW         INTEGER,
                  frMgtVCSigUserT391RW         INTEGER,
                  frMgtVCSigNetN392RW          INTEGER,
                  frMgtVCSigNetN393RW          INTEGER,
                  frMgtVCSigNetT392RW          INTEGER,
                  frMgtVCSigNetnT3RW           INTEGER
          }

          frMgtVCSigProced OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER {
                        u2nnet(1),
                        bidirect(2),
                        u2nuser(3)
                      }
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the Local
                      In-Channel Signaling Procedure that is used for
                      this UNI/NNI logical port.  Bidirectional
                      procedures implies that both user-side and
                      network-side procedures are used."
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 1 }

          frMgtVCSigUserN391 OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (1..255)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the User-side
                      N391 full status polling cycle value for this
                      UNI/NNI logical port.  If the logical port is not
                      performing user-side (bidirectional) procedures,
                      then this value is equal to noSuchInstance. This
                      object applies to Q.933 Annex A and T1.617 Annex
                      D."
              DEFVAL { 6 }
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 2 }

          frMgtVCSigUserN392 OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (1..10)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 25]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                      "The value of this object identifies the User-side
                      N392 error threshold value for this UNI/NNI
                      logical port.  If the logical port is not
                      performing user-side (bidirectional) procedures,
                      then this value is equal to noSuchInstance. This
                      object applies to Q.933 Annex A and T1.617 Annex
                      D."
              DEFVAL { 3 }
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 3 }

          frMgtVCSigUserN393 OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (1..10)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the User-side
                      N393 monitored events count value for this UNI/NNI
                      logical port.  If the logical port is not
                      performing user-side (bidirectional) procedures,
                      then this value is equal to noSuchInstance. This
                      object applies to Q.933 Annex A and T1.617 Annex
                      D."
              DEFVAL { 4 }
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 4 }

          frMgtVCSigUserT391 OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (5..30)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the User-side
                      T391 link integrity verification polling timer
                      value for this UNI/NNI logical port.  If the
                      logical port is not performing user-side
                      procedures, then this value is equal to
                      noSuchInbstance. This object applies to Q.933
                      Annex A and T1.617 Annex D."
              DEFVAL { 10 }
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 5 }

          frMgtVCSigNetN392 OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (1..10)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 26]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                      "The value of this object identifies the Network-
                      side N392 error threshold value (nN2 for LMI) for
                      this UNI/NNI logical port.  If the logical port is
                      not performing network-side procedures, then this
                      value is equal to noSuchInstance. This object
                      applies to Q.933 Annex A, T1.617 Annex D and LMI."
              DEFVAL { 3 }
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 6 }

          frMgtVCSigNetN393 OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (1..10)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the Network-
                      side N393 monitored events count value (nN3 for
                      LMI) for this UNI/NNI logical port.  If the
                      logical port is not performing network-side
                      procedures, then this value is equal to
                      noSuchInstance. This object applies to Q.933 Annex
                      A, T1.617 Annex D and LMI."
              DEFVAL { 4 }
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 7 }

          frMgtVCSigNetT392 OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (5..30)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the Network-
                      side T392 polling verification timer value (nT2
                      for LMI)  for this UNI/NNI logical port.  If the
                      logical port is not performing network-side
                      procedures, then this value is equal to
                      noSuchInstance. This object applies to Q.933 Annex
                      A, T1.617 Annex D and LMI."
              DEFVAL { 15 }
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 8 }

          frMgtVCSigNetnN4 OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (5..5)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the Network-


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 27]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                      side nN4 maximum status enquires received value
                      for this UNI/NNI logical port.  If the logical
                      port is not performing network-side procedures or
                      is not performing LMI procedures, then this value
                      is equal to noSuchInstance. This object applies
                      only to LMI and always has a value of 5."
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 9 }

          frMgtVCSigNetnT3 OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the Network-
                      side nT3 timer (for nN4 status enquires received)
                      value for this UNI/NNI logical port.  If the
                      logical port is not performing network-side
                      procedures or is not performing LMI procedures,
                      then this value is equal to noSuchInstance. This
                      object applies only to LMI."
              DEFVAL { 20 }
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 10 }

          frMgtVCSigUserLinkRelErrors OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of user-side local in-channel
                      signaling link reliability errors (i.e., non-
                      receipt of Status/Status Enquiry messages or
                      invalid sequence numbers in a Link Integrity
                      Verification Information Element) for this UNI/NNI
                      logical port.  If the logical port is not
                      performing user-side procedures, then this value
                      is equal to noSuchInstance."
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 11 }

          frMgtVCSigUserProtErrors OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of user-side local in-channel
                      signaling protocol errors (i.e., protocol


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 28]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                      discriminator, unnumbered information, message
                      type, call reference, and mandatory information
                      element errors) for this UNI/NNI logical port.  If
                      the logical port is not performing user-side
                      procedures, then this value is equal to
                      noSuchInstance."
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 12 }

          frMgtVCSigUserChanInactive OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of times the user-side channel was
                      declared inactive (i.e., N392 errors in N393
                      events) for this UNI/NNI logical port. If the
                      logical port is not performing user-side
                      procedures, then this value is equal to
                      noSuchInstance."
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 13 }

          frMgtVCSigNetLinkRelErrors OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of network-side local in-channel
                      signaling link reliability errors (i.e., non-
                      receipt of Status/Status Enquiry messages or
                      invalid sequence numbers in a Link Integrity
                      Verification Information Element) for this UNI/NNI
                      logical port."
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 14 }

          frMgtVCSigNetProtErrors OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of network-side local in-channel
                      signaling protocol errors (i.e., protocol
                      discriminator, message type, call reference, and
                      mandatory information element errors) for this
                      UNI/NNI logical port."
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 15 }


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 29]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          frMgtVCSigNetChanInactive OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of times the network-side channel was
                      declared inactive (i.e., N392 errors in N393
                      events) for this UNI/NNI logical port."
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 16 }

          frMgtVCSigProcedRW OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER {
                        u2nnet(1),
                        bidirect(2)
                      }
              MAX-ACCESS  read-write
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the desired
                      Local In-Channel Signaling Procedure that is used
                      for this UNI/NNI logical port.  The UNI/NNI
                      logical port can be performing only user-to-
                      network network-side procedures or bidirectional
                      procedures.  Bidirectional procedures implies that
                      both user-side and network-side procedures are
                      used."
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 17 }

          frMgtVCSigUserN391RW OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (1..255)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-write
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the desired
                      User-side N391 full status polling cycle value for
                      this UNI/NNI logical port.  If the logical port is
                      not performing user-side (bidirectional)
                      procedures, then this value is equal to
                      noSuchInstance. This object applies to Q.933 Annex
                      A and T1.617 Annex D."
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 18 }

          frMgtVCSigUserN392RW OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (1..10)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-write


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 30]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the desired
                      User-side N392 error threshold value for this
                      UNI/NNI logical port.  If the logical port is not
                      performing user-side (bidirectional) procedures,
                      then this value is equal to noSuchInstance. This
                      object applies to Q.933 Annex A and T1.617 Annex
                      D."
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 19 }

          frMgtVCSigUserN393RW OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (1..10)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-write
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the desired
                      User-side N393 monitored events count value for
                      this UNI/NNI logical port.  If the logical port is
                      not performing user-side (bidirectional)
                      procedures, then this value is equal to
                      noSuchInstance. This object applies to Q.933 Annex
                      A and T1.617 Annex D."
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 20 }

          frMgtVCSigUserT391RW OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (5..30)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-write
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the desired
                      User-side T391 link integrity verification polling
                      timer value for this UNI/NNI logical port.  If the
                      logical port is not performing user-side
                      procedures, then this value is equal to
                      noSuchInbstance. This object applies to Q.933
                      Annex A and T1.617 Annex D."
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 21 }

          frMgtVCSigNetN392RW OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (1..10)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-write
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the desired


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 31]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                      Network-side N392 error threshold value (nN2 for
                      LMI) for this UNI/NNI logical port.  If the
                      logical port is not performing network-side
                      procedures, then this value is equal to
                      noSuchInstance. This object applies to Q.933 Annex
                      A, T1.617 Annex D and LMI."
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 22 }

          frMgtVCSigNetN393RW OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (1..10)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-write
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the desired
                      Network-side N393 monitored events count value
                      (nN3 for LMI) for this UNI/NNI logical port.  If
                      the logical port is not performing network-side
                      procedures, then this value is equal to
                      noSuchInstance. This object applies to Q.933 Annex
                      A, T1.617 Annex D and LMI."
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 23 }

          frMgtVCSigNetT392RW OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (5..30)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-write
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the desired
                      Network-side T392 polling verification timer value
                      (nT2 for LMI)  for this UNI/NNI logical port.  If
                      the logical port is not performing network-side
                      procedures, then this value is equal to
                      noSuchInstance. This object applies to Q.933 Annex
                      A, T1.617 Annex D and LMI."
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 24 }

          frMgtVCSigNetnT3RW OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (5 | 10 | 15 | 20 | 25 | 30)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-write
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the desired
                      Network-side nT3 timer (for nN4 status enquires
                      received) value for this UNI/NNI logical port.  If
                      the logical port is not performing network-side


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 32]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                      procedures or is not performing LMI procedures,
                      then this value is equal to noSuchInstance. This
                      object applies only to LMI."
              ::= { frMgtVCSigEntry 25 }










































Expires May 1998                                               [Page 33]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          -- The PVC End-Point Group

          -- This table is used to identify the traffic parameters
          -- for a bi-directional PVC segment end-point, and it also
          -- provides statistics for a PVC segment
          -- end-point.

          -- A PVC segment end-point is identified by a UNI/NNI
          -- logical port index value and DLCI index value.

          -- If the Frame Relay service provider allows
          -- the Frame Relay CNM subscriber to create, modify
          -- or delete PVCs using SNMP, then this table is used
          -- to identify and reserve
          -- the requested traffic parameters of each
          -- PVC segment end-point.  The Connection table
          -- is used to "connect" the end-points together.
          -- Not all implementations will support the
          -- capability of creating/modifying/deleting
          -- PVCs using SNMP as a feature of Frame Relay
          -- CNM service.

          -- Uni-directional PVCs are modeled with zero
          -- valued traffic parameters in one of the
          -- directions (In or Out direction) in this table.

          -- To create a PVC, the following procedures
          -- shall be followed:
          -- 1). Create the entries for the PVC segment endpoints in the
          --     frPVCEndptTable by specifying the traffic parameters
          --     for the bi-directional PVC segment endpoints.
          --     As shown in the figure, a point-to-point PVC has
          --     two endpoints, thus two entries in this table.
          --     Uni-directional PVCs are modeled
          --     with zero valued traffic parameters in one
          --     direction; all the `In' direction parameters
          --     for one Frame Relay PVC End-point or
          --     all the `Out' direction
          --     parameters for the other Frame Relay PVC
          --     End-point.






Expires May 1998                                               [Page 34]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          --     In    ____________________________________ Out
          --    >>>>>>|                                   |>>>>>>>>
          --    ______| Frame Relay Network               |__________
          --     Out  |                                   |  In
          --    <<<<<<|                                   |<<<<<<<<
          --          |___________________________________|
          --  Frame Relay PVC                            Frame Relay
          --   End-point                                 PVC  End-point

          -- 2). Go to the Frame Relay Connection Group.
          --

          -- The Frame Relay PVC End-point Table

          frPVCEndptTable OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  SEQUENCE OF FrPVCEndptEntry
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The Frame Relay PVC End-Point table.  This table
                      is used to model a PVC end-point.  This table
                      contains the traffic parameters and statistics for
                      a PVC end-point."
              ::= { frnetservObjects 3 }

          frPVCEndptEntry OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  FrPVCEndptEntry
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "An entry in the Frame Relay PVC Endpoint table."
              INDEX   { ifIndex, frPVCEndptDLCIIndex }
              ::= { frPVCEndptTable 1 }

          FrPVCEndptEntry ::=
              SEQUENCE {
                  frPVCEndptDLCIIndex            Integer32,
                  frPVCEndptInMaxFrameSize       Integer32,
                  frPVCEndptInBc                 Integer32,
                  frPVCEndptInBe                 Integer32,
                  frPVCEndptInCIR                Integer32,
                  frPVCEndptOutMaxFrameSize      Integer32,
                  frPVCEndptOutBc                Integer32,
                  frPVCEndptOutBe                Integer32,
                  frPVCEndptOutCIR               Integer32,


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 35]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                  frPVCEndptConnectIdentifier    Integer32,
                  frPVCEndptRowStatus            RowStatus,
                  frPVCEndptRcvdSigStatus        INTEGER,
                  frPVCEndptInFrames             Counter32,
                  frPVCEndptOutFrames            Counter32,
                  frPVCEndptInDEFrames           Counter32,
                  frPVCEndptInExcessFrames       Counter32,
                  frPVCEndptOutExcessFrames      Counter32,
                  frPVCEndptInDiscards           Counter32,
                  frPVCEndptInOctets             Counter32,
                  frPVCEndptOutOctets            Counter32,
                  frPVCEndptInDiscardsDESet      Counter32,
                  frPVCEndptInFramesFECNSet      Counter32,
                  frPVCEndptOutFramesFECNSet     Counter32,
                  frPVCEndptInFramesBECNSet      Counter32,
                  frPVCEndptOutFramesBECNSet     Counter32,
                  frPVCEndptInCongDiscards       Counter32,
                  frPVCEndptInDECongDiscards     Counter32,
                  frPVCEndptOutCongDiscards      Counter32,
                  frPVCEndptOutDECongDiscards    Counter32,
                  frPVCEndptOutDEFrames          Counter32
              }


          frPVCEndptDLCIIndex OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Integer32
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is equal to the DLCI
                      value for this PVC end-point."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 1 }

          frPVCEndptInMaxFrameSize OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Integer32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-create
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is the size in octets of
                      the largest frame relay information field for this
                      PVC end-point in the ingress direction (into the
                      frame relay network).  The value of
                      frPVCEndptInMaxFrameSize must be less than or
                      equal to the corresponding ifMtu for this Frame
                      Relay UNI/NNI logical port."


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 36]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 2 }

          frPVCEndptInBc OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Integer32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-create
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is equal to the
                      committed burst size (Bc) parameter (measured in
                      bits) for this PVC end-point in the ingress
                      direction (into the frame relay network)."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 3 }

          frPVCEndptInBe OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Integer32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-create
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is equal to the excess
                      burst size (Be) parameter (measured in bits) for
                      this PVC end-point in the ingress direction (into
                      the frame relay network)."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 4 }

          frPVCEndptInCIR OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Integer32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-create
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is equal to the
                      committed information rate (CIR) parameter
                      (measured in bits per second) for this PVC end-
                      point in the ingress direction (into the frame
                      relay network)."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 5 }

          frPVCEndptOutMaxFrameSize OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Integer32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-create
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is the size in octets of
                      the largest frame relay information field for this
                      PVC end-point in the egress direction (out of the
                      frame relay network).  The value of


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 37]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                      frPVCEndptOutMaxFrameSize must be less than or
                      equal to the corresponding ifMtu for this Frame
                      Relay UNI/NNI logical port."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 6 }

          frPVCEndptOutBc OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Integer32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-create
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is equal to the
                      committed burst size (Bc) parameter (measured in
                      bits) for this PVC end-point in the egress
                      direction (out of the frame relay network)."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 7 }

          frPVCEndptOutBe OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Integer32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-create
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is equal to the excess
                      burst size (Be) parameter (measured in bits) for
                      this PVC end-point in the egress direction (out of
                      the frame relay network)."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 8 }

          frPVCEndptOutCIR OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Integer32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-create
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is equal to the
                      committed information rate (CIR) parameter
                      (measured in bits per second) for this PVC end-
                      point in the egress direction (out of the frame
                      relay network)."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 9 }

          frPVCEndptConnectIdentifier OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Integer32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "This object is used to associate PVC end-points


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 38]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                      as being part of one PVC segment connection.  This
                      value of this object is equal to the value of
                      frPVCConnectIndex, which is used as one of the
                      indices into the frPVCConnectTable.  The value of
                      this object is provided by the agent, after the
                      associated entries in the frPVCConnectTable have
                      been created."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 10 }

          frPVCEndptRowStatus OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  RowStatus
              MAX-ACCESS  read-create
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "This object is used to create new rows in this
                      table, modify existing rows, and to delete
                      existing rows.  To create a new PVC, the entries
                      for the PVC segment end-points in the
                      frPVCEndptTable must first be created.  Next, the
                      frPVCConnectTable is used to associate the Frame
                      Relay PVC segment end-points.  In order for the
                      manager to have the necessary error diagnostics,
                      the frPVCEndptRowStatus object must initially be
                      set to `createAndWait'.  While the
                      frPVCEndptRowStatus object is in the
                      `createAndWait' state, the manager can set each
                      columnar object and get the necessary error
                      diagnostics.  The frPVCEndptRowStatus object may
                      not be set to `active' unless the following
                      columnar objects exist in this row:
                      frPVCEndptInMaxFrameSize, frPVCEndptInBc,
                      frPVCEndptInBe, frPVCEndptInCIR,
                      frPVCEndptOutMaxFrameSize, frPVCEndptOutBc,
                      frPVCEndptOutBe, and frPVCEndptOutCIR."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 11 }

          frPVCEndptRcvdSigStatus OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER {
                        deleted(1),
                        active(2),
                        inactive(3),
                        none(4)
                      }
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 39]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the PVC
                      status received via the local in-channel signaling
                      procedures for this PVC end-point.  This object is
                      only pertinent for interfaces that perform the
                      bidirectional procedures.

                      Each value has the following meaning:
                        deleted(1):  This PVC is not listed in the full
                                     status reports received from the
                                     user device.  The object retains
                                     this value for as long as the PVC
                                     is not listed in the full status
                                     reports

                        active(2):   This PVC is reported as active, or
                                     operational, by the user device.

                        inactive(3): This PVC is reported as inactive,
                                     or non-operational, by the user
                                     device.

                        none(4):     This interface is only using the
                                     network-side in-channel signaling
                                     procedures, so this object does
                                     not apply."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 12 }

          frPVCEndptInFrames OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of frames received by the network
                      (ingress) for this PVC end-point. This includes
                      any frames discarded by the network due to
                      submitting more than Bc + Be data or due to any
                      network congestion recovery procedures."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 13 }

          frPVCEndptOutFrames OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 40]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                      "The number of frames sent by the network (egress)
                      regardless of whether they are Bc or Be frames for
                      this PVC end-point."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 14 }

          frPVCEndptInDEFrames OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of frames received by the network
                      (ingress) with the DE bit set to (1) for this PVC
                      end-point."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 15 }

          frPVCEndptInExcessFrames OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of frames received by the network
                      (ingress) for this PVC end-point which were
                      treated as excess traffic.  Frames which are sent
                      to the network with DE set to zero are treated as
                      excess when more than Bc bits are submitted to the
                      network during the Committed Information Rate
                      Measurement Interval (Tc).  Excess traffic may or
                      may not be discarded at the ingress if more than
                      Bc + Be bits are submitted to the network during
                      Tc.  Traffic discarded at the ingress is not
                      recorded in frPVCEndptInExcessFrames.  Frames
                      which are sent to the network with DE set to one
                      are also treated as excess traffic."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 16 }

          frPVCEndptOutExcessFrames OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of frames sent by the network (egress)
                      for this PVC end-point which were treated as
                      excess traffic.  (The DE bit may be set to one.)"
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 17 }


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 41]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          frPVCEndptInDiscards OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of frames received by the the network
                      (ingress) that were discarded due to traffic
                      enforcement for this PVC end-point.  Congestion
                      discards are not counted in this object."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 18 }

          frPVCEndptInOctets OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of octets received by the network
                      (ingress) for this PVC end-point.  This counter
                      should only count octets from the beginning of the
                      frame relay header field to the end of user data.
                      If the network supporting Frame Relay can not
                      count octets, then this count should be an
                      approximation."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 19 }

          frPVCEndptOutOctets OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of octets sent by the network (egress)
                      for this PVC end-point.  This counter should only
                      count octets from the beginning of the frame relay
                      header field to the end of user data.  If the
                      network supporting Frame Relay can not count
                      octets, then this count should be an
                      approximation."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 20 }

          frPVCEndptInDiscardsDESet OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of frames received by the network


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 42]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                      (ingress) that were discarded with the DE bit set
                      due to traffic enforcement for this PVC end-point.
                      Congestion discards are not counted in this
                      object."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 21 }

          frPVCEndptInFramesFECNSet OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of frames received by the network
                      (ingress) that have the FECN bit set for this PVC
                      end-point.  If the logical port is not performing
                      network-side procedures, then this value is equal
                      to noSuchInstance."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 22 }

          frPVCEndptOutFramesFECNSet OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of frames sent by the network (egress)
                      that have the FECN bit set for this PVC end-
                      point."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 23 }

          frPVCEndptInFramesBECNSet OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of frames received by the network
                      (ingress) that have the BECN bit set for this PVC
                      end-point.  If the logical port is not performing
                      network-side procedures, then this value is equal
                      to noSuchInstance."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 24 }

          frPVCEndptOutFramesBECNSet OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 43]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                      "The number of frames sent by the network (egress)
                      that have the BECN bit set for this PVC end-
                      point."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 25 }

          frPVCEndptInCongDiscards OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of frames received by the network
                      (ingress) that were discarded due to input buffer
                      congestion, rather than traffic enforcement, for
                      this PVC end-point."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 26 }

          frPVCEndptInDECongDiscards OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of frames counted by
                      frPVCEndptInCongDiscards with the DE bit set to
                      (1)."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 27 }

          frPVCEndptOutCongDiscards OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of frames sent by the network (egress)
                      that were discarded due to output buffer
                      congestion for this PVC end-point."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 28 }

          frPVCEndptOutDECongDiscards OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of frames counted by
                      frPVCEndptOutCongDiscards with the DE bit set to
                      (1)."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 29 }


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 44]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          frPVCEndptOutDEFrames OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The number of frames sent by the network (egress)
                      with the DE bit set to (1) for this PVC end-
                      point."
              ::= { frPVCEndptEntry 30 }





































Expires May 1998                                               [Page 45]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          -- The Frame Relay PVC Connection Group

          -- The Frame Relay PVC Connection Group
          -- is used to model the bi-directional
          -- PVC segment flows;
          -- point-to-point PVCs, point-to-multipoint
          -- PVCs, and multipoint-to-multipoint
          -- PVCs.

          -- This table has read-create access and
          -- is used to associate PVC end-points
          -- together as belonging to one connection.
          -- The frPVCConnectIndex is used to associate
          -- all the bi-directional flows.
          -- Not all implementations will support the
          -- capability of creating/modifying/deleting
          -- PVCs using SNMP as a feature of Frame Relay
          -- CNM service.

          -- Once the entries in the frPVCEndptTable
          -- are created, the following step are used
          -- to associate the PVC end-points as belonging
          -- to one PVC connection:
          -- 1). Obtain a unique frPVCConnectIndex
          --     using the frPVCConnectIndexValue object.
          -- 2). Connect the PVC segment endpoints together
          --     with the applicable frPVCConnectIndex value
          --     obtained via
          --     frPVCConnectIndexValue.
          --     The entries in this table are created by using
          --     the frPVCConnectRowStatus object.
          -- 3). The agent will provide the value of the
          --     corresponding instances of
          --     frPVCEndptConnectIdentifier with the
          --     the frPVCConnectIndex value.
          -- 4). Set frPVCConnectAdminStatus to `active' in all
          --     rows for this PVC segment to
          --     turn the PVC on.








Expires May 1998                                               [Page 46]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          -- For example, the Frame Relay PVC Connection Group
          -- models a bi-directional, point-to-point PVC segment
          -- as one entry in this table.

          -- Frame Relay Network                 Frame Relay Network
          --  Low Port ____________________________________ High Port
          --          |                                   |
          --    ______| >> from low to high PVC flow   >> |____________
          --          | << from high to low PVC flow   << |
          --          |___________________________________|
          --

          -- The terms low and high are chosen to represent numerical
          -- ordering of a PVC segment's endpoints for representation
          -- in this table.  That is, the endpoint with the lower value
          -- of ifIndex is termed 'low', while the opposite endpoint
          -- of the segment is termed 'high'.
          -- This terminology is to provide directional information;
          -- for example the frPVCConnectL2hOperStatus and
          -- frPVCConnectH2lOperStatus as illustrated above.

          -- If the Frame Relay Connection table is used to model
          -- a unidirectional PVC, then one direction (either from low
          -- to high or from high to low) has its Operational Status
          -- equal to down.

          -- A PVC segment is a portion of a PVC that traverses one
          -- Frame Relay Network, and a PVC segment is identified
          -- by its two end-points (UNI/NNI logical port index value
          -- and DLCI index value) through one Frame Relay Network.


          frPVCConnectIndexValue OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER (0..2147483647)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "This object contains an appropriate value to be
                      used for frPVCConnectIndex when creating entries
                      in the frPVCConnectTable.  The value 0 indicates
                      that no unassigned entries are available.  To
                      obtain the frPVCConnectIndex value for a new
                      entry, the manager issues a management protocol
                      retrieval operation to obtain the current value of
                      this object.  After each retrieval, the agent


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 47]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                      should modify the value to the next unassigned
                      index."
              ::= { frnetservObjects 4 }

          --  The Frame Relay PVC Connection Table

          frPVCConnectTable OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  SEQUENCE OF FrPVCConnectEntry
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The Frame Relay PVC Connect table.  A bi-
                      directional PVC segment is modeled as one entry in
                      this table."
              ::= { frnetservObjects 5 }

          frPVCConnectEntry OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  FrPVCConnectEntry
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "An entry in the Frame Relay PVC Connect table.
                      This entry is used to model a PVC segment in two
                      directions."
              INDEX { frPVCConnectIndex,
                      frPVCConnectLowIfIndex,
                      frPVCConnectLowDLCIIndex,
                      frPVCConnectHighIfIndex,
                      frPVCConnectHighDLCIIndex }
              ::= { frPVCConnectTable 1 }

          FrPVCConnectEntry ::=
              SEQUENCE {
                  frPVCConnectIndex            Integer32,
                  frPVCConnectLowIfIndex       InterfaceIndex,
                  frPVCConnectLowDLCIIndex     Integer32,
                  frPVCConnectHighIfIndex      InterfaceIndex,
                  frPVCConnectHighDLCIIndex    Integer32,
                  frPVCConnectAdminStatus      INTEGER,
                  frPVCConnectL2hOperStatus    INTEGER,
                  frPVCConnectH2lOperStatus    INTEGER,
                  frPVCConnectL2hLastChange    TimeStamp,
                  frPVCConnectH2lLastChange    TimeStamp,
                  frPVCConnectRowStatus        RowStatus,
                  frPVCConnectUserName         DisplayString,


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 48]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                  frPVCConnectProviderName     DisplayString
          }

          frPVCConnectIndex OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Integer32
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is equal to the
                      frPVCConnectIndexValue obtained to uniquely
                      identify this PVC segment connection."
              ::= { frPVCConnectEntry 1 }

          frPVCConnectLowIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  InterfaceIndex
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is equal to MIB II's
                      ifIndex value of the UNI/NNI logical port for this
                      PVC segment.  The term low implies that this PVC
                      segment end-point has the numerically lower
                      ifIndex value than the connected/associated PVC
                      segment end-point.  If the value is equal to zero,
                      then this logical port is not a Frame Relay
                      UNI/NNI logical port."
              ::= { frPVCConnectEntry 2 }

          frPVCConnectLowDLCIIndex OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Integer32
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is equal to the DLCI
                      value for this end-point of the PVC segment.  If
                      the value is equal to zero, then this endpoint of
                      the PVC segment is not a Frame Relay connection."
              ::= { frPVCConnectEntry 3 }

          frPVCConnectHighIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  InterfaceIndex
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is equal to MIB II's


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 49]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                      ifIndex value for the UNI/NNI logical port for
                      this PVC segment.  The term high implies that this
                      PVC segment end-point has the numerically higher
                      ifIndex value than the connected/associated PVC
                      segment end-point."
              ::= { frPVCConnectEntry 4 }

          frPVCConnectHighDLCIIndex OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Integer32
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is equal to the egress
                      DLCI value for this end-point of the PVC segment."
              ::= { frPVCConnectEntry 5 }

          frPVCConnectAdminStatus OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER {
                        active(1),
                        inactive(2),
                        testing(3)
                      }
              MAX-ACCESS  read-create
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the desired
                      administrative status of this bi-directional PVC
                      segment.  The active state means the PVC segment
                      is currently operational; the inactive state means
                      the PVC segment is currently not operational; the
                      testing state means the PVC segment is currently
                      undergoing a test.  This state is set by an
                      administrative entity.  This value affects the PVC
                      status indicated across the ingress NNI/UNI of
                      both end-points of the bi-directional PVC segment.
                      When a PVC segment connection is created using
                      this table, this object is initially set to
                      `inactive'.  After the frPVCConnectRowStatus
                      object is set to `active' (and the
                      corresponding/associated entries in the
                      frPVCEndptTable have their frPVCEndptRowStatus
                      object set to `active'), the
                      frPVCConnectAdminStatus object may be set to
                      `active' to turn on the PVC segment connection."
              ::= { frPVCConnectEntry 6 }


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 50]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          frPVCConnectL2hOperStatus OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER {
                        active(1),
                        inactive(2),
                        testing(3),
                        unknown(4)
                      }
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the current
                      operational status of the PVC segment connection
                      in one direction; (i.e., in the low to high
                      direction). This value affects the PVC status
                      indicated across the ingress NNI/UNI (low side) of
                      the PVC segment.

                      The values mean:
                      active   - PVC is currently operational
                      inactive - PVC is currently not operational.  This
                                 may be because of an underlying LMI or
                                 DS1 failure.
                      testing  - PVC is currently undergoing a test.
                                 This may be because of an underlying
                                 frLport or DS1 undergoing a test.
                      unknown  - the status of the PVC currently can not
                                 be determined."
              ::= { frPVCConnectEntry 7 }

          frPVCConnectH2lOperStatus OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  INTEGER {
                        active(1),
                        inactive(2),
                        testing(3),
                        unknown(4)
                      }
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object identifies the current
                      operational status of the PVC segment connection
                      in one direction; (i.e., in the high to low
                      direction)..  This value affects the PVC status
                      indicated across the ingress NNI/UNI (high side)
                      of the PVC segment.


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 51]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                      The values mean:
                      active   - PVC is currently operational
                      inactive - PVC is currently not operational.  This
                                 may be because of an underlying LMI or
                                 DS1 failure.
                      testing  - PVC is currently undergoing a test.
                                 This may be because of an underlying
                                 frLport or DS1 undergoing a test.
                      unknown  - the status of the PVC currently can not
                                 be determined."
              ::= { frPVCConnectEntry 8 }

          frPVCConnectL2hLastChange OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  TimeStamp
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of MIB II's sysUpTime object at the
                      time this PVC segment entered its current
                      operational state in the low to high direction.
                      If the current state was entered prior to the last
                      re-initialization of the proxy-agent, then this
                      object contains a zero value."
              ::= { frPVCConnectEntry 9 }

          frPVCConnectH2lLastChange OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  TimeStamp
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of MIB II's sysUpTime object at the
                      time this PVC segment entered its current
                      operational state in the high to low direction.
                      If the current state was entered prior to the last
                      re-initialization of the proxy-agent, then this
                      object contains a zero value."
              ::= { frPVCConnectEntry 10 }

          frPVCConnectRowStatus OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  RowStatus
              MAX-ACCESS  read-create
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The status of this entry in the
                      frPVCConnectTable.  This variable is used to


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 52]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                      create new connections for the PVC end-points and
                      to change existing connections of the PVC end-
                      points.  This object must be initially set to
                      `createAndWait'. In this state, the agent checks
                      the parameters in the associated entries in the
                      frPVCEndptTable to verify that the PVC end-points
                      can be connected (i.e., the In parameters for one
                      PVC end-point are equal to the Out parameters for
                      the other PVC end-point).  This object can not be
                      set to `active' unless the following columnar
                      object exists in this row:
                      frPVCConnectAdminStatus.  The agent also supplies
                      the associated value of frPVCConnectIndex for the
                      frPVCEndptConnectIdentifier instances.  To turn on
                      a PVC segment connection, the
                      frPVCConnectAdminStatus is set to `active'."
              ::= { frPVCConnectEntry 11 }

          frPVCConnectUserName OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  DisplayString (0..255)
              MAX-ACCESS  read-create
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "This is a service user assigned textual
                      representation of a PVC."
              ::= { frPVCConnectEntry 12 }

          frPVCConnectProviderName OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  DisplayString (0..255)
              MAX-ACCESS read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "This is a system supplied textual representation
                      of PVC.  It is assigned by the service provider."
              ::= { frPVCConnectEntry 13 }











Expires May 1998                                               [Page 53]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          -- The Frame Relay Accounting Groups

          -- The groups are the following:
          --  Accounting on a PVC basis
          --  Accounting on an Interface/Logical Port basis

          -- The Accounting on a Frame Relay PVC basis Group

          -- The accounting information is collected for a PVC
          -- segment end-point.

          frAccountPVCTable OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  SEQUENCE OF FrAccountPVCEntry
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The Frame Relay Accounting PVC table.  This table
                      is used to perform accounting on a PVC segment
                      end-point basis."
              ::= { frnetservObjects 6 }

          frAccountPVCEntry OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  FrAccountPVCEntry
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "An entry in the Frame Relay Accounting PVC
                      table."
              INDEX   { ifIndex, frAccountPVCDLCIIndex }
              ::= { frAccountPVCTable 1 }

          FrAccountPVCEntry ::=
              SEQUENCE {
                  frAccountPVCDLCIIndex            Integer32,
                  frAccountPVCSegmentSize          Integer32,
                  frAccountPVCInSegments           Counter32,
                  frAccountPVCOutSegments          Counter32
              }


          frAccountPVCDLCIIndex OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Integer32
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 54]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                      "The value of this object is equal to the DLCI
                      value for this PVC segment end-point."
              ::= { frAccountPVCEntry 1 }

          frAccountPVCSegmentSize OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Integer32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is equal to the Segment
                      Size for this PVC segment end-point."
              ::= { frAccountPVCEntry 2 }

          frAccountPVCInSegments OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is equal to the number
                      of segments received by this PVC segment end-
                      point."
              ::= { frAccountPVCEntry 3 }

          frAccountPVCOutSegments OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is equal to the number
                      of segments sent by this PVC segment end-point."
              ::= { frAccountPVCEntry 4 }















Expires May 1998                                               [Page 55]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          -- The Accounting on a Frame Relay Logical Port basis Group


          frAccountLportTable OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  SEQUENCE OF FrAccountLportEntry
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The Frame Relay Accounting Logical Port table.
                      This table is used to perform accounting on a
                      UNI/NNI Logical Port basis."
              ::= { frnetservObjects 7 }

          frAccountLportEntry OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  FrAccountLportEntry
              MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "An entry in the Frame Relay Accounting Logical
                      Port table."
              INDEX   { ifIndex }
              ::= { frAccountLportTable 1 }

          FrAccountLportEntry ::=
              SEQUENCE {
                  frAccountLportSegmentSize
                      Integer32,
                  frAccountLportInSegments
                      Counter32,
                  frAccountLportOutSegments
                      Counter32
              }


          frAccountLportSegmentSize OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Integer32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is equal to the Segment
                      Size for this UNI/NNI logical port."
              ::= { frAccountLportEntry 1 }

          frAccountLportInSegments OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 56]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is equal to the number
                      of segments received by this UNI/NNI logical
                      port."
              ::= { frAccountLportEntry 2 }

          frAccountLportOutSegments OBJECT-TYPE
              SYNTAX  Counter32
              MAX-ACCESS  read-only
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The value of this object is equal to the number
                      of segments sent by this UNI/NNI logical port."
              ::= { frAccountLportEntry 3 }






























Expires May 1998                                               [Page 57]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          -- Frame Relay Network Service TRAPS

          frPVCConnectStatusChange  NOTIFICATION-TYPE
              OBJECTS { frPVCConnectIndex,
                        frPVCConnectLowIfIndex,
                        frPVCConnectLowDLCIIndex,
                        frPVCConnectHighIfIndex,
                        frPVCConnectHighDLCIIndex,
                        frPVCConnectL2hOperStatus,
                        frPVCConnectH2lOperStatus,
                        frPVCEndptRcvdSigStatus,
                        frPVCEndptRcvdSigStatus }
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "This trap indicates that the indicated PVC has
                      changed state.  This trap is not sent if an FR-UNI
                      changes state; a linkDown or linkUp trap should be
                      sent instead.  The first instance of
                      frPVCEndptRcvdSigStatus is for the endpoint with
                      LowIfIndex, LowDLCIIndex.  The second instance of
                      frPVCEndptRcvdSigStatus is for the endpoint with
                      HighIfIndex, HighDLCIIndex"
              ::= { frnetservTraps 1 }























Expires May 1998                                               [Page 58]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          -- Conformance Information

          frnetservConformance  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { frnetservMIB 3 }

          frnetservGroups       OBJECT IDENTIFIER
              ::= { frnetservConformance 1 }
          frnetservCompliances  OBJECT IDENTIFIER
              ::= { frnetservConformance 2 }

          -- Compliance Statements

          frnetservCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
              STATUS  current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "The compliance statement for SNMPv2 entities
                      which have Frame Relay Network Service
                      Interfaces."
              MODULE -- this module
                  MANDATORY-GROUPS { frnetservLportGroup,
                                     frnetservMgtVCSigGroup,
                                     frnetservPVCEndptGroup }

                  GROUP       frnetservPVCConnectGroup
                  DESCRIPTION
           "This group is optional for Frame Relay interfaces.  It is
           mandatory if the agent supporting the MIB is a proxy."
                  GROUP       frnetservPVCNotifGroup
                  DESCRIPTION
           "This group is optional for Frame Relay interfaces.  It is
           mandatory if the agent supporting the MIB is a proxy."
                  GROUP       frnetservAccountPVCGroup
                  DESCRIPTION
                      "This group is optional for Frame Relay
                      interfaces.  It is mandatory if and only if
                      accounting is performed on a PVC basis this Frame
                      Relay interface."
                  GROUP       frnetservAccountLportGroup
                  DESCRIPTION
                      "This group is optional for Frame Relay
                      interfaces.  It is mandatory if and only if
                      accounting is performed on a logical port basis
                      this Frame Relay interface."

                  OBJECT      frPVCEndptInMaxFrameSize
                  MIN-ACCESS  read-only


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 59]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                  DESCRIPTION
                        "Write access is not required."

                  OBJECT      frPVCEndptInBc
                  MIN-ACCESS  read-only
                  DESCRIPTION
                        "Write access is not required."

                  OBJECT      frPVCEndptInBe
                  MIN-ACCESS  read-only
                  DESCRIPTION
                        "Write access is not required."

                  OBJECT      frPVCEndptInCIR
                  MIN-ACCESS  read-only
                  DESCRIPTION
                        "Write access is not required."

                  OBJECT      frPVCEndptOutMaxFrameSize
                  MIN-ACCESS  read-only
                  DESCRIPTION
                        "Write access is not required."

                  OBJECT      frPVCEndptOutBc
                  MIN-ACCESS  read-only
                  DESCRIPTION
                        "Write access is not required."

                  OBJECT      frPVCEndptOutBe
                  MIN-ACCESS  read-only
                  DESCRIPTION
                        "Write access is not required."

                  OBJECT      frPVCEndptOutCIR
                  MIN-ACCESS  read-only
                  DESCRIPTION
                        "Write access is not required."

                  OBJECT      frPVCEndptRowStatus
               -- subset of RowStatus
                  SYNTAX      INTEGER { active(1) }
                  MIN-ACCESS  read-only
                  DESCRIPTION
                      "Write access is not required, and only one of the
                      six enumerated values for the RowStatus textual


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 60]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                      convention need be supported, specifically:
                      active(1)."

                  OBJECT      frPVCConnectAdminStatus
                  MIN-ACCESS  read-only
                  DESCRIPTION
                       "Write access is not required."

                  OBJECT      frPVCConnectRowStatus
               -- subset of RowStatus
                  SYNTAX      INTEGER { active(1) }
                  MIN-ACCESS  read-only
                  DESCRIPTION
                      "Write access is not required, and only one of the
                      six enumerated values for the RowStatus textual
                      convention need be supported, specifically:
                      active(1)."
                ::= { frnetservCompliances 1 }




























Expires May 1998                                               [Page 61]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          -- Units of Conformance

          frnetservLportGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
                OBJECTS { frLportNumPlan,
                          frLportContact,
                          frLportLocation,
                          frLportType,
                          frLportAddrDLCILen,
                          frLportVCSigProtocol,
                          frLportVCSigPointer,
                          frLportDLCIIndexValue,
                          frLportTypeRW,
                          frLportVCSigProtocolRW,
                          frLportVCSigPointerRW }
                STATUS  current
                DESCRIPTION
                      "A collection of objects providing information
                      applicable to a Frame Relay Logical Port."
                ::= { frnetservGroups 1 }

          frnetservMgtVCSigGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
                OBJECTS { frMgtVCSigProced,
                          frMgtVCSigUserN391,
                          frMgtVCSigUserN392,
                          frMgtVCSigUserN393,
                          frMgtVCSigUserT391,
                          frMgtVCSigNetN392,
                          frMgtVCSigNetN393,
                          frMgtVCSigNetT392,
                          frMgtVCSigNetnN4,
                          frMgtVCSigNetnT3,
                          frMgtVCSigUserLinkRelErrors,
                          frMgtVCSigUserProtErrors,
                          frMgtVCSigUserChanInactive,
                          frMgtVCSigNetLinkRelErrors,
                          frMgtVCSigNetProtErrors,
                          frMgtVCSigNetChanInactive,
                          frMgtVCSigProcedRW,
                          frMgtVCSigUserN391RW,
                          frMgtVCSigUserN392RW,
                          frMgtVCSigUserN393RW,
                          frMgtVCSigUserT391RW,
                          frMgtVCSigNetN392RW,
                          frMgtVCSigNetN393RW,
                          frMgtVCSigNetT392RW,


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 62]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


                          frMgtVCSigNetnT3RW }
                STATUS  current
                DESCRIPTION
                      "A collection of objects providing information
                      applicable to the Local In-Channel Signaling
                      Procedures used for a UNI/NNI logical port."
                ::= { frnetservGroups 2 }

          frnetservPVCEndptGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
                OBJECTS { frPVCConnectIndexValue,
                          frPVCEndptInMaxFrameSize,
                          frPVCEndptInBc,
                          frPVCEndptInBe,
                          frPVCEndptInCIR,
                          frPVCEndptOutMaxFrameSize,
                          frPVCEndptOutBc,
                          frPVCEndptOutBe,
                          frPVCEndptOutCIR,
                          frPVCEndptConnectIdentifier,
                          frPVCEndptRowStatus,
                          frPVCEndptRcvdSigStatus,
                          frPVCEndptInFrames,
                          frPVCEndptOutFrames,
                          frPVCEndptInDEFrames,
                          frPVCEndptInExcessFrames,
                          frPVCEndptOutExcessFrames,
                          frPVCEndptInDiscards,
                          frPVCEndptInOctets,
                          frPVCEndptOutOctets,
                          frPVCEndptInDiscardsDESet,
                          frPVCEndptInFramesFECNSet,
                          frPVCEndptOutFramesFECNSet,
                          frPVCEndptInFramesBECNSet,
                          frPVCEndptOutFramesBECNSet,
                          frPVCEndptInCongDiscards,
                          frPVCEndptInDECongDiscards,
                          frPVCEndptOutCongDiscards,
                          frPVCEndptOutDECongDiscards,
                          frPVCEndptOutDEFrames }
                STATUS  current
                DESCRIPTION
                      "A collection of objects providing information
                      application to a Frame Relay PVC end-point."
                ::= { frnetservGroups 3 }


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 63]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          frnetservPVCConnectGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
                OBJECTS { frPVCConnectAdminStatus,
                          frPVCConnectL2hOperStatus,
                          frPVCConnectH2lOperStatus,
                          frPVCConnectL2hLastChange,
                          frPVCConnectH2lLastChange,
                          frPVCConnectRowStatus,
                          frPVCConnectUserName,
                          frPVCConnectProviderName }
                STATUS  current
                DESCRIPTION
                      "A collection of objects providing information
                      applicable to a Frame Relay PVC connection."
                ::= { frnetservGroups 4 }

          frnetservAccountPVCGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
                OBJECTS { frAccountPVCSegmentSize,
                          frAccountPVCInSegments,
                          frAccountPVCOutSegments }
                STATUS  current
                DESCRIPTION
                      "A collection of objects providing accounting
                      information application to a Frame Relay PVC end-
                      point."
                ::= { frnetservGroups 5 }

          frnetservAccountLportGroup  OBJECT-GROUP
                OBJECTS { frAccountLportSegmentSize,
                          frAccountLportInSegments,
                          frAccountLportOutSegments }
                STATUS  current
                DESCRIPTION
                      "A collection of objects providing accounting
                      information application Frame Relay logical port."
                ::= { frnetservGroups 6 }

          frnetservPVCNotifGroup NOTIFICATION-GROUP
              NOTIFICATIONS { frPVCConnectStatusChange }
              STATUS    current
              DESCRIPTION
                      "A collection of notifications that apply to Frame
                      Relay PVC Connections "
              ::= { frnetservGroups 7 }



Expires May 1998                                               [Page 64]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


          END













































Expires May 1998                                               [Page 65]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


7.  Acknowledgments

   This document was produced by the Frame Relay Service MIB Working
   Group.










































Expires May 1998                                               [Page 66]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


8.  References

   [1] SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
       S. Waldbusser, "Structure of Management Information for Version 2
       of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902,
       January 1996.

   [2] McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management
       Information Base for Network Management of TCP/IP-based
       internets: MIB-II", STD 17, RFC 1213, Hughes LAN Systems,
       Performance Systems International, March 1991.

   [3] Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin. " A Simple
       Network Management Protocol (SNMP)", STD 15, RFC 1157, SNMP
       Research, Performance Systems International, MIT Lab for
       Computer Science, May 1990.

   [4] SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and
       S. Waldbusser, "Protocol Operations for Version 2 of the Simple
       Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

   [5] McCloghrie, K. and F. Kastenholz, "Evolution of the
       Interfaces Group of MIB-II", draft-ietf-ifmib-mib-04.txt,
       Cisco, FTP Software, November 1996.

   [6] Rodemann, K., "Service Management Architecture for Virtual
       Connection Services", Work In Progress, July 1993.

   [7] ANSI T1.617-1991, American National Standard for
       Telecommunications - Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) -
       Digital Subscriber Signaling System No. 1 (DSS1) - Signaling
       Specification for Frame Relay Bearer Service.

   [8] Brown, C., Baker, F., "Management Information
       Base for Frame Relay DTEs", RFC 2115, Cadia Networks,
       Cisco Systems, September 1997.

   [9] Bradley, T., Brown, C., and A. Malis, "Multi-Protocol
       Interconnect over Frame Relay", RFC 1490, Wellfleet
       Communications, Inc., Ascom Timeplex, Inc., July 1993.

  [10] Fowler, D, "Definitions of Managed Objects for the DS0
       and DS0 Bundle Interface Types",
       draft-ietf-trunkmib-ds0-mib-04.txt


Expires May 1998                                               [Page 67]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


9.  Security Considerations

This MIB adds no security issues that are not raised by SNMP itself. As
a Network Management Protocol, SNMP is capable of changing the
configuration of a system, of denial of service attacks through
requiring the agent to respond to its messages, and displaying values of
system counters and configuration settings in the clear where an
adversary might read them. This, however, is not in itself a threat:
this is the function of the protocol, but could be misused. Such misuse
can be avoided or minimized through SNMP Security.



10.  Authors' Addresses

   David Fowler
   Newbridge Networks
   600 March Road
   Kanata, Ontario, Canada K2K 2E6

   Phone: (613) 599-3600, ext 6559

   EMail: davef@newbridge.com























Expires May 1998                                               [Page 68]

Internet Draft          Frame Relay Service MIB            November 1997


   Table of Contents


   1 The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework ......................    2
   2 Object Definitions ...........................................    3
   2.1 Changes from RFC 1604 ......................................    3
   3 Overview .....................................................    5
   3.1 Scope of MIB ...............................................    5
   3.2 Frame Relay Service MIB Terminology ........................    8
   3.3 Apply MIB II to a Frame Relay Service ......................   10
   3.3.1 System Group .............................................   10
   3.3.2 Interfaces Table (ifTable, ifXtable) .....................   10
   3.3.3 Stack Table for DS1/E1 Environment .......................   14
   3.3.4 Stack Table for V.35 Environments ........................   17
   4 Object Definitions ...........................................   18
   4.1 The Frame Relay Service Logical Port Group .................   19
   4.2 The Frame Relay Management VC Signaling Group ..............   24
   4.3 The PVC End-Point Group ....................................   34
   4.4 Frame Relay PVC Connection Group ...........................   46
   4.5 Frame Relay Accounting Groups ..............................   54
   5 Frame Relay Network Service TRAPS ............................   58
   6 Conformance Information ......................................   59
   7 Acknowledgments ..............................................   66
   8 References ...................................................   67
   9 Security Considerations ......................................   68
   10 Authors' Addresses ..........................................   68




















Expires May 1998                                               [Page 69]
