INTERNET DRAFT                                         Satish Jamadagni
March 2002                                                     Satish D
                                                     Shiva Raman Pandey
                                  Sasken Communication Technologies Ltd

        A combined Context Transfer and Candidate Access Router
                           Discovery protocol
                       draft-satish-car-ct-00.txt

Status of this Memo 
 
This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026 [1].

Internet Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups. Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts. Internet
Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months and may be
updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any time. It is
inappropriate to use Internet Drafts as reference material or to cite
them other than as "work in progress".

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
     http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt
The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
     http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html. 

This document is an individual submission to the Seamoby Working Group
of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF). Comments should be
submitted to seamoby@diameter.org mailing list. Distribution of this
memo is unlimited.


Abstract 
    
Protocols being designed for seamless IP-level handovers, such as fast 
handover, context transfer (CT) and Candidate Access Router (CAR)
discovery protocols will have to go hand in hand for any meaningful 
seamless handover implementation. The CAR discovery and subsequent 
Target Access Router (TAR) discovery is achieved through L3 QoS 
parameters, user preferences and application level QoS parameter match 
between the geographically adjacent access routers (GAAR). It is 
asserted in this draft that the primary consideration for fast handover 
and CAR discovery will still be layer 3 QoS parameters as supported by 
the ARs.

The TAR selection demands that the capability set of the CARs is 
available and should necessarily meet the MN's requirements. While the 
TAR selection process can happen at the time of handover, the GAARs 
which have the capabilities to meet the MN's requirements can be 
identified in advance. Whether the CAR and subsequently the TAR 
identification is done in advance of at the time of handover there will 
have to be a constant exchange of capabilities between the current AR 


Satish et Al                                                   [Page 1]



Internet Draft    A Combined CT and CAR Discovery Protocol     Mar 2002


and the GAARs. This motivates us to propose a CAR discovery protocol 
using CT messages thus resulting in signaling advantages. Our protocol 
qualifies to be what is called the CAR discovery protocol.


Table of Contents 
    
   1.     Introduction                                                2 
   1.1.   Conventions Used In This Document                           4 
   1.2.   Terminology                                                 4 
   2.     The CAR Discovery Protocol                                  5 
   2.1.   Capability exchange between GAARs - From GAARs to CARs      6
   2.1.1. Capability list in the PPCT                                 6 
   2.2.   Target Access Router (TAR) Selection                        7 
   3.     Modified Messages used by the CAR Discovery Protocol        8
   3.1.   Modified PCT for GAAR identification                        8 
   3.2.   CT Messages to aid in TAR identification                   10 
   4.     Mobile Node (MN) Operation                                 10 
   5.     Access Router (AR) Operation                               10 
   6.     Security Considerations                                    11 
   7.     References                                                 11 
   8.     Author's Addresses                                         12 
    
     
1. INTRODUCTION 
 
There are existing solutions [1, 2] that enable mobile nodes (MNs) to 
execute IP-level handovers between the points of attachment (called 
access routers or ARs) to IP network. Additionally, work is underway 
[3, 4, 5, 6, 7], to define protocols that would allow seamless, i.e., 
low latency and low packet loss, handovers of MNs between ARs. These 
seamless handover solutions assume that the identity of the target AR 
TAR) for the MN's handover is known to the current AR. It is required 
to develop a protocol that would allow an AR to identify the TAR for 
MN's handover.

We identify two important components in the problem of TAR selection. 
They are as follows:

  1) Identifying the neighboring or geographically adjacent ARs 
     sufficiently in advance of the handover, which have the capability
     set required to meet the MN's requirements. This process leads to 
     a set of CARs, which not only are geographically adjacent but also 
     meet any initial context based filtering criteria that can be 
     used. Such initial filtering to identify CARs based on a critical, 
     common feature set as required by all or a subset of the MNs
     attached to an AR is briefly discussed in a later section.

  2) Choosing the TAR either at the time of handover from the set of
     CARs, or much earlier if possible with the help of additional 


Satish et Al                                                   [Page 2]



Internet Draft    A Combined CT and CAR Discovery Protocol     Mar 2002


     information such as any additional context information, local 
     policy, MN's preferences etc. 

Three approaches, namely, anticipated, dynamic and hybrid, have been 
outlined in [8] for CAR discovery. In the "anticipated" approach, the 
current AR identifies the CARs for handover prior to the handover 
process. At the time of handover, the TAR is identified by the current 
AR from the set of CARs. If CAR selection is "dynamic", the MN is 
actively involved in the CAR discovery process. The MN identifies the 
neighboring ARs as well as their capabilities and selects the TAR. This 
information is then forwarded to the current AR. A "hybrid" approach 
lies in between these two.

In this draft, we argue that any AR that embarks on the CAR discovery 
process to aid in seamless handover can achieve identification of 
geographically adjacent access routers at a high level and as a further 
step can identify those ARs that cover in some sense an aggregate of 
the QoS supported by the discovery initiating AR. We also argue that 
the process of specifically identifying the target access router should 
involve the MN or the MN specific QoS and policy considerations. We 
specify a protocol where the discovery initiating AR initially 
identifies the GAARs and then uses CT messages as described in [10] 
with the "aggregate QoS" to identify a broad set of CARs. Then the 
actual identification of the TAR from the CARs can involve the use of 
CT messages by the specific MN or the initiating AR. The identification 
of the TAR given a set of CARs can be initiated by the MN or can be 
proactively achieved by the AR on behalf of the MN. Here the initiating 
AR can use triggers as specified in the fast handover draft [3] to 
initiate a MN specific TAR identification based on the MNs context
state in that AR.

In our protocol we assume that the MN may not be in a position to 
listen to a neighboring beacon i.e. the MN may not have or might not 
prefer to have (due to power, interference considerations) two L2 
connections UP simultaneously. The protocol should cater to this 
situation well. In case a MN has the capability to listen to 
advertisements over two L2s simultaneously A MN can listen to beacons 
from neighboring access points and forward the information in the 
beacon to the AR it is currently attached to. The TAR selection 
protocol can then take this as an initiation to identify the TAR. 

Our protocol can cater to both the cases though we believe that the 
former should be given more consideration because of power and other 
interference constraints that might arise with two L2s being UP 
simultaneously.

TAR selection will have to consider other parameters like user 
preferences and policies along with CARs to uniquely identify the TAR. 
The algorithms (like distance measures between the QoS descriptors etc) 
used in TAR selection, however is out of scope for this document. 


Satish et Al                                                   [Page 3]



Internet Draft    A Combined CT and CAR Discovery Protocol     Mar 2002


1.1. Conventions used in this document 
    
The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in RFC-2119 [2].


1.2. Terminology 
    
   Access Point (AP)  : A layer 2 device to which the MN connects to  
                        through a wireless link. An AP may connect to 
                        one or more ARs. An AR may be connected to  
                        connected to APs belonging to different  
                        technologies. 
    
   Access Router (AR) : An IP router residing in an access network and 
                        connected to one or more APs. An AR offers IP  
                        connectivity to MN. When dealing with IPv4 
                        based networks running Mobile IPv4, Foreign  
                        Agents (FAs) take the place of ARs. 
         
   Geographically  
   Adjacent AR (GAAR) : An AR whose coverage area is such that an MN 
                        may move from the coverage area of the AR 
                        currently serving the MN into the coverage 
                        area of this AR.  
 
   Physical 
   Neighborhood List  
   (PNL)              : The set of GAARs along with their capabilities 
                        maintained at an AR. 
    
   Candidate AR (CAR) : This is an AR that is a candidate for MN's 
                        handover. Candidate AR is "physically adjacent" 
                        to the AR currently serving the MN, and has the 
                        capability set required to serve the MN. 
    
   Target AR (TAR)    : This is an AR with which the procedures for 
                        MN's handover are initiated. 
    
   Border Router (BR) : Globally IP addressable router through which 
                        a privately addressable network connects  
                        to the Internet. 
 
   IP-level Identity 
   of an AR           : This is the IP address of an AR if the address 
                        is globally routable. However, if an AR resides 
                        in a private IP address space, this is a  
                        tuple (border router's globally routable IP  
                        address, AR identifier recognized by the BR). 
    

Satish et Al                                                   [Page 4]



Internet Draft    A Combined CT and CAR Discovery Protocol     Mar 2002
         

2. THE CAR DISCOVERY PROTOCOL
    
A basic requirement for a new AR to be considered as a CAR for a MN is 
that the coverage area of the new AR be "geographically adjacent" to 
that of the AR currently serving the MN. Note that, the geographical 
adjacency of two ARs is not necessarily implied by their "logical" 
adjacency [9]. 
    
Manually configuring this physical neighborhood at each AR as described 
in [8] has disadvantages and in many cases, may not be feasible. We 
describe a dynamic mechanism to identify GAARs for each AR. It is 
described with reference to Figure 1. 



              MN             +-----------+ 
              +-+            | Current   |        < 
              | | ---------- |    AR     | ------ > ----\ 
              +-+            |           |        <      \ 
                             +-----------+                \ 
               |                                      +--------+ 
      Handover |       Capability  ^          IP      | Corr.  | 
               |        Exchange   |        Network   |Node(CN)| 
               V    (PPCT message) |                  +--------+ 
                                   v                      / 
              MN             +-----------+                / 
              +-+ -------->  |    New    |        <      / 
              | | ---------- |     AR    | ------ > ----/ 
              +-+            |           |        < 
                             +-----------+ 

              Figure 1: Reference Scenario for Handovers 
    
In Figure 1, the current AR broadcasts the "physical coverage area" to 
all its logically adjacent ARs and the new AR adds this identity to its 
Physical Neighborhood List (PNL) if this entry does not already exist 
and associates a lifetime to it. The lifetime field is refreshed if the 
entry already exists. This "Router Identity" message can be sent to the 
new AR as an ICMP option.

The "Partial Proactive CT (PPCT)" is derived from the PCT message 
defined in [10] and this can be broadcast by an edge device or a border 
gateway or by the AR itself to the new AR. The PPCT broadcast SHOULD 
essentially be an edge device function. 

If the MN can detect the identity of the new AR by listening to its 
beacon while still connected to the old AR, then the MN MUST forward 
this identity to the old AR. It again uses the Router Identity message 
for this purpose.


Satish et Al                                                   [Page 5]



Internet Draft    A Combined CT and CAR Discovery Protocol     Mar 2002


If the MN receives the L2 identity of the AP in the AP's beacon it 
forwards this information to the current AR also through the Router 
Identity message.

A Physical Neighborhood List (PNL) [9] is maintained at an AR and there 
is one entry in the PNL for each GAAR of an AR that has been identified 
so far. The capability set maintained is not elaborate in the sense 
that a minimum but essential set is identified. The objective is just 
to be able to identify CARs from the GAARs.  

  
2.1. Capability exchange between GAARs - From GAARs to CARs
   
In future IP networks, the GAARs will be heterogeneous in 
administrative control, function, capability, link layer technology and 
resources available for packet sessions. Further the MN will have 
specific requirements as regards these parameters. The knowledge of 
GAARs' capabilities allows the current AR to choose CARs from GAARs. 
Hence, the current AR needs to identify the capability set of each of 
its GAARs to arrive at the CAR set.

The PPCT message is sent to a new GAAR over the wired Internet 
enlisting the AR's capabilities. On receiving this message, the 
recipient GAAR responds with another PPCT message detailing its own 
capabilities. The capability information obtained via this message is 
used to populate the "Capability Set" field in the PNL. GAARs MAY also 
exchange the status of capabilities periodically or on-demand. 
    

2.1.1. Capability list in the PPCT
    
Capabilities can broadly be divided into dynamic and static. Static 
capabilities do not change over time, while dynamic capabilities do. 
Some of the capabilities are specific to a particular MN, and MAY be 
exchanged on demand. There may be other capabilities which are more 
generic and which may specify information relevant to all MNs. The 
capability exchange is achieved through the use of CT [10] messages. 

The CAR discovery protocol SHOULD make a distinction between that set 
of capabilities that can be used by the AR in choosing CARs from GAARs 
independent of the MN considerations and those that are used in the 
actual TAR identification. Some of the context parameter considerations 
that the RIM should support in order to help in CAR identification by 
any AR are listed below. 

   - Administrative parameters: ISP name, organizational ownership, 
     device authentication and authorization data, policy information; 
    
   - Cost of access: Dollar cost per QoS class; 


Satish et Al                                                   [Page 6]



Internet Draft    A Combined CT and CAR Discovery Protocol     Mar 2002

    
   - Available radio interfaces that are geographically adjacent to 
     given AR: 802.11, WCDMA, GSM; 
    
   - Availability of application logic: Multicast support, playout 
     buffer hosting for streaming applications, TCP performance 
     enhancing proxies (PEPs), media transcoding functionality, header 
     compression functionality; 
 
   - Internet connectivity parameters: NAT traversal for connectivity; 
    
   - Resource parameters: Existing load, available bandwidth are some
     of the resource parameters that can be used. 
    
   - Identities of APs (layer 2 identities) that are served by the AR. 

Once GAARs are identified through the PPCT messages, the current AR 
identifies the CARs for a particular MN as GAARs whose capabilities 
meets either a broad set of MNs grouped together based on the 
applications or services that they are running or the MN's capability 
requirements. 


2.2. Target Access Router (TAR) Selection 
 
Assuming that the current AR has done a good job of identifying a 
minimal set of CARs from which the MN has to choose a TAR, the actual 
TAR selection can be based on explicit MN triggers (MN initiated) or 
the AR initiated. The TAR selection algorithm can reside in the MN or 
at the AR. The following figures (2 and 3) depicts the scenarios 
mentioned above. 


            +----------+                 +----------+
            |          |    3. SHREQ     |          |
            |          |-----------------|          |
2. Trigger  |   Prtr   |    4. SHREP     |   Nrtr   |
   ------>  |          |                 |          |
            |          | <-------------> |          |
            |          | 1. PPCT (CARs)  |          |
            +----------+                 +----------+
                |  ^                         ^  |
                |  |                         |  |
5. Proxy router |  |                         |  ~~
   solicitation v  |                         |
                  V                             V
                +-+                           +-+
                | |       6. movement         | |
                +-+     --------------->      +-+

    Figure 2: CAR discovery protocol (AR initiated handover)


Satish et Al                                                   [Page 7]



Internet Draft    A Combined CT and CAR Discovery Protocol     Mar 2002

In anticipated CAR discovery the AR can help find the exact TAR for the 
mobile node and then notify the MN about the new AR for handover. This 
can be the case under certain load conditions when the AR wants to 
force some MNs to new ARs. 


            +----------+                 +----------+
            |          |   3. SHREQ      |          |
            |   Prtr   |-----------------|   Nrtr   |
            |          |   4. SHREP      |          |
            |          |                 |          |
            |          |  <----------->  |          |
            +----------+  1. PPCT (CARs) +----------+
                 ^                         ^  |
                 |                         |  |
      2. Trigger |                         |  ~~
                 |                         |
                   V                          V
                 +-+                        +-+
                 | |       5. movement      | |
                 +-+     --------------->   +-+

    Figure 3: CAR discovery Protocol (MN initiated handover)

In the case of the dynamic CAR discovery the MN initiates the TAR 
discovery. 

The process of identifying the TAR for the MN's handover forms the 
final step of the TAR selection process. This step is performed at the 
time of handover. The TAR selection algorithm selects a unique TAR from 
the set of CARs. For this it also uses the AR reachability information 
for the MN at the time of handover. In addition, other aspects such as 
local policy and MN's preferences are also applied during the decision-
making. The details of TAR selection algorithm are not within the scope 
of CAR discovery protocol. The TAR selection is aided through the CT 
messages like SHREQ and SHREP [10] where the exact list of context 
parameters are exchanged on a per MN basis and the TAR selection 
algorithm run over these parameters. The MNs can be an active or a 
passive participant in the TAR selection process. 


3. MODIFIED MESSAGES USED BY THE CAR DISCOVERY PROTOCOL 

3.1. Modified PCT for GAAR identification

We are using a modified PCT message [10] as mentioned below to achieve 
the GAAR list and further the CAR list from a given set of GAARs. We 
call this message the PPCT (Partial proactive context transfer). 


Satish et Al                                                   [Page 8]



Internet Draft    A Combined CT and CAR Discovery Protocol     Mar 2002


     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |    Type=PPCT  |     Length    |       Reserved                |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                                                               |
    |            128-bit Multicast or broadcast IP Address          |
    |                                                               |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                                                               |
    |                  128-bit AR IP Address (Paddr)                |
    |                                                               |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                   Geographic coverage information        
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |     Context Transfer Options Data... (Initial capability set) 
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |SOType=AuthTken| Sub-Option Len|  Algorithm    |  Key Length   |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                            Key...
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

       Figure 4: Partial Proactive Context Transfer Option Format


      Option Type   Partial Proactive Context Transfer (PPCT)

      Option Length  Variable

      Geographic coverage information        
                     Covers the Geographic coverage area information 
                     (either coordinates or through symbolic means) 

      Context Transfer Options Data
                     Individual feature contexts in the form of sub
                     options.  These are encoded in Sub-Option Type and
                     Sub-Option Length format, as in the structure of
                     SHIN message [10].

      Algorithm      8-bit algorithm indication for computing the
                     Authentication Token [10]. 

      Key Length     8-bit unsigned integer.  The length of the key in
                     units of 4 octets.

      Key            Encrypted key.  The Key is encrypted using a
                     pre-existing shared key between the Access 
                     Routers.


Satish et Al                                                   [Page 9]



Internet Draft    A Combined CT and CAR Discovery Protocol     Mar 2002


The identification of the GAARs and CARs should be done independently 
of the MN as this reduces delays for a MN during handover, to inform 
the AR about the identities of GAARs. The motivation is that the AR 
SHOULD provide the MAXIMUM support for any seamless handover. This is 
motivated by the fact that the MN can be constrained by power and over 
the air signaling issues. The SEAMOBY WG SHOULD lay more emphasis on 
evolving protocols that reduce the over-the-air signaling. The increase 
in the wire-line signaling is acceptable.


3.2. CT Messages to aid in TAR identification
 
In our protocol (refer figure 2 and 3) we suggest the use of the SHREQ 
and SHREP [10] messages for the complete context exchange on a per 
mobile basis. This helps the MN or the AR in identifying the TAR. The 
TAR selection algorithm can be resident in the AR or the MN.

During the TAR identification process a partial context transfer would 
have occurred. This can be used to reduce the signaling during the CT 
operation. 


4. MOBILE NODE (MN) OPERATION 
 
   The following item summarizes the operations at the MN: 
    
   - Maintains information about current AR's IP Identity.

   - Listen to L2 triggers or any other triggers for the MN initiated
     TAR identification.

   - Sends the SHIN [10] message to the AR to initiate the TAR
     identification process. If the new AR field in the SHIN message is
     left blank, the AR initiates TAR selection process.

   - When a MN moves to a new AR it forwards the previous AR's IP
     Identity to the new AR. 
 
 
5. ACCESS ROUTER (AR) OPERATION 
 
   The following items summarize the operations at the AR: 
    
   - The AR maintains a PNL.  
    
   - Upon receiving a PPCT message containing the identity of a GAAR,
     the AR checks to see whether the entry for this GAAR exists in the
     PNL. If it does, the AR refreshes the lifetime of the entry. 


Satish et Al                                                  [Page 10]



Internet Draft    A Combined CT and CAR Discovery Protocol     Mar 2002


   - Identifies CARs based on the MN's requirements and capability
     parameters of GAARs recorded in the PNL. The current AR may
     solicit any MN-specific requirements from the GAARs.

   - The AR solicits the complete context information of the CARs
     through the SHREQ and SHREP messages on a per MN basis on receipt
     of a trigger either at AR or at the MN. 

  
6. SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS 
 
In our protocol the use of CT messages during the CAR discovery
provides for some level of security as some security features are in 
built in the CT messages [10]. Further it is required to discuss the 
security considerations involved in performing GAAR discovery. The 
security association between GAARs for the exchange of capability 
information can be established using standard methods for device 
authentication, key exchange and encryption.

 
7. REFERENCES 
 
[1] IP Mobility Support, C. Perkins (Editor), RFC 2002, October 1996.

[2] Mobility Support in IPv6, D. Johnson and C. Perkins,
    draft-ietf-mobileip-ipv6-13.txt, work in progress, November 2000.

[3] Low Latency Handoffs in Mobile IPv4, MIPv4 Handoffs Design Team,
    draft-ietf-mobileip-lowlatency-handovers-v4-00.txt, work in 
    progress, February 2001. 

[4] Fast handovers for Mobile IPv6, MIPv6 handover Design Team,
    draft-ietf-mobileip-fast-mipv6-01.txt, work in progress, April
    2001.

[5] Problem Description: Reasons For Performing Context Transfers
    Between Nodes in an IP Access Network, O. H. Levkowetz et. al.,
    draft-ietf-seamoby-context-transfer-problem-stat-01.doc, work in
    progress, May 2001.

[6] General requirements for a context transfer framework, H. Sayed
    et. al., draft-ietf-seamoby-ct-reqs-00.txt, work in progress,
    May 2001.

[7] Buffer Management for Smooth handovers in Mobile IPv6,
    G. Krishnamurthi, R. Chalmers, C. Perkins,
    draft-krishnamurthi-mobileip-buffer6-01.txt, work in progress,
    March 2001.


Satish et Al                                                  [Page 11]



Internet Draft    A Combined CT and CAR Discovery Protocol     Mar 2002


[8] Issues in Candidate Access Router Discovery, D. Trossen,
    G Krishnamurthi, H. Chaskar, J. Kempf,
    draft-ietf-seamoby-CARdiscovery-02.txt, work in progress,
    November 2001.

[9] Protocol for Candidate Access Router Discovery for Seamless IP-
    level Handovers, Dirk Trossen, Govind Krishnamurthi, Hemant
    Chaskar, Eunsoo Shim, Richard D. Gitlin,
    draft-trossen-seamoby-cardiscovery-00.txt, work in progress,
    November 2001.

[10] R Koodli, C.E. Perkins. A Context Transfer Framework for
     Seamless Mobility (work in progress). Internet Draft,
     Internet Engineering Task Force.
     draft-koodli-seamoby-ctv6-02.txt, November 2001.


8. AUTHOR'S ADDRESSES

Satish Jamadagni,
Sasken Communication Technologies Ltd,
#139/25, Amar Jyoti Layout, Ring Road,
Domlur P.O, Bangalore 560071, India
Phone: +91 80 5355501 Ext:3029
Fax:   +91 80 5351133
Email: satishj@sasken.com

Satish D,
Sasken Communication Technologies Ltd,
#139/25, Amar Jyoti Layout, Ring Road,
Domlur P.O, Bangalore 560071, India
Phone: +91 80 5355501 Ext:3164
Fax:   +91 80 5351133
Email: satishd@sasken.com

Shiva Raman Pandey,
Sasken Communication Technologies Ltd,
#139/25, Amar Jyoti Layout, Ring Road,
Domlur P.O, Bangalore 560071, India
Phone: +91 80 5355501 Ext:3296
Fax:   +91 80 5351133
Email: shiva@sasken.com










Satish et Al                                                  [Page 12]
