INTERNET DRAFT                                                    Man Li 
IPSP working group                                         David Arneson 
Expires January 2001                                               Nokia 
Standards Track 
                                                              Avri Doria 
                                                         Nortel Networks 
 
                                                             Jamie Jason 
                                                                   Intel 


                         IPSec Policy Information Base 

                       <draft-ietf-ipsp-ipsecpib-00.txt> 



Status of this Memo  

     This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with 
     all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026. 

     Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering 
     Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that 
     other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
     Drafts. 

     Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six 
     months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other 
     documents at any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- 
     Drafts as reference material or to cite them other than as "work 
     in progress." 

     The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at 
     http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt 

     The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at 
     http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html. 


Abstract 

This document specifies a set of policy rule classes (PRC) for 
configuring IPSec services. Instances of these classes reside in a 
virtual information store called IPSec Policy Information Base (PIB).  

The COPS protocol [COPS] with the extensions for provisioning [COPS-
PR] may be used to transmit this IPSec policy information to IPSec-



Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason                                        [Page 1] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

enabled devices (e.g., gateways) in order to configure VPN services. 
The PRCs defined in this IPSec PIB are intended for use by the COPS-
PR IPSec client type. They complement the PRCs defined in the 
Framework PIB [FR-PIB]. 


1. Introduction  

The policy rule classes (PRC) defined in this document contain 
parameters for IKE phase one and phase two negotiations. The IPSec 
PIB, when downloaded to IPSec-enabled devices, will enable them to 
construct a Security Policy Database (SPD). The PRCs described in 
this document are based on[IPSEC-IM][IKE][ESP][AH][DOI][IPCOMP][SPPI]. 
Please refer to [ARCH] for a description of IPSec architecture and 
[PCIM][FR-PIB] for information about applying the concept of role 
and role combination to policy management. 

Following the policy framework convention, the management entity that 
downloads policy to IPSec-enabled devices will be called a Policy 
Decision Point (PDP) and the IPSec-enabled devices will be called 
Policy Execution Points (PEP). On boot up, a PEP reports to a PDP, 
among other things, its role or role combinations. The PDP then 
determines the IPSec PIB that should be downloaded to the PEP 
according to the role description. Later on, if the role of the PEP 
changes, the PEP would notify the PDP with its new role and the PDP 
would send new PIB to the PEP. In addition, if policy associated with 
a particular role changes, PDP would download new PIB to all the PEPs 
that have registered with the particular role. 

There is an ongoing effort in defining IPSec configuration policy 
model[IPSEC-IM]. The PIB defined in this document is not completely 
aligned with the information model. As work goes on, they should be 
aligned in the near future.  


2. Descriptions of the IPSec PIB 

2.1 ipSecSelectorTable  

This table specifies IPSec selectors. The selectors form an ordered 
list and the ipSecSelectorOrder attribute defines the position of a 
selector within the list. Each selector is associated with an IPSec 
action. An IP packet is compared with the ordered selector list and 
the first match is selected. The action associated with that selector 
is then applied to the packet. 

Multiple selectors may be associated with the same action and, if 
IPSec protection is required, the same IKE phase 1 and 2 negotiation 


Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 2] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

parameters. These selectors are grouped together and are given the 
same selector group number as indicated by the ipSecSelectorGroup 
attribute. 

In some situations, either the source or the destination address of a 
selector needs to be a wild card. Remote access is an example. A 
remote terminal is dynamically assigned an IP address by its ISP. 
That address cannot be known beforehand and hence need to be 
specified as a wild-carded address in the IPSec policy. A wild-carded 
IP address is specified with the combination of an all zero IP 
address (e.g., IPv4 0.0.0.0) and an all zero address mask (e.g., IPv4 
0.0.0.0).   

Another type of wild-carded address is a so-called semi-wild-carded 
address. It indicates "all the addresses protected by the PEP 
gateway". For a VPN that has well defined topology (e.g., fully 
meshed), a selector stating "tcp traffic from all the addresses 
protected by the PEP to network Z" can be downloaded to all the VPN 
gateways without spelling out the different protected IP addresses 
for different gateway. This simplifies PIB construction and network 
management. A semi-wild-carded IP address is specified with the 
combination of an all zero IP address and an all ones address mask 
(e.g., IPv4 255.255.255.255). 

2.2 ipSecActionTable  

This table specifies the service to be provided to an IP packet. 
Actions include Bypass, Discard, Transport and Tunnel. When tunnel is 
specified, the IP address of the remote gateway to which the tunnel 
is to be established should also be specified.  

If Transport or Tunnel is specified, references to the 
ipSecSecurityAssociationTable and the ipSecIkeActionTable should also 
be specified. These two tables provide details of IKE and IPSec 
associations. 

2.3 ipSecRuleTable  

This table ties the role combinations, selector groups and IPSec 
action together. It specifies individual rule within a security 
policy database. For each rule, it has references to a selector group 
and to an IPSec action. Effectively, it says that if a packet matches 
a selector in the pointed selector group, it should be provided with 
the service specified by the action. 

This table also references the ipSecPolicyTimePeriodGroupTable to 
specify the time periods during which a policy is valid. 




Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 3] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

2.4 ipSecIkeActionTable  

This table specifies attributes associated with IKE Associations. It 
also references a row in the ipSecIkeProposalGroupTable to specify 
proposals the PEP should propose when establishing an IKE 
association.  

2.5 ipSecIkeProposalGroupTable  

This table specifies multiple IKE proposal groups. Within a group, 
proposals are ORed with preference.  

2.6 ipSecIkeProposalTable  

This table specifies attributes associated with IKE proposals. 

2.7 ipSecSecurityAssociationTable  

This table specifies attributes associated with IPSec Associations. 
It also references a row in the ipSecProposalGroupTable to specify 
proposals the PEP should propose when establishing an IPSec 
association.  

2.8 ipSecProposalGroupTable  

This table specifies multiple proposal groups. Within a group, 
proposals are Ored with preference.  

2.9 ipSecProposalTable  

This table specifies IPSec proposals. It references the 
ipSecEspTransformGroupTable, ipSecAhTransformGroupTable and 
ipSecCompTransformGroupTable to specify transforms within each 
proposal. Within a proposal, different transforms are ANDed. 

2.10 ipSecEspTransformGroupTable  

This table specifies multiple ESP transform groups. Within a 
transform group, the choices are ORed with preference order. 

2.11 ipSecEspTransformTable  

This table specifies attributes associated with ESP transforms. 

2.12 ipSecAhTransformGroupTable  

This table specifies multiple AH transform groups. Within a transform 
group, the choices are ORed with preference order. 




Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 4] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

2.13 ipSecAhTransformTable  

This table specifies attributes associated with AH transforms. 

2.14 ipSecCompTransformGroupTable  

This table specifies multiple IPComp transform groups. Within a 
transform group, the choices are ORed with preference order. 

2.15 ipSecCompTransformTable  

This table specifies attributes associated with IPComp transforms. 

2.16 ipSecPolicyTimePeriodTable  

A policy may be valid only for some given time periods. [FR-PIB] 
describes a method for pre-provisioning of policy and later a PDP may 
active the policy by a single decision message.  

In large networks, it may be desirable to include policy valid 
periods in the policy itself. It is then the responsibility of the 
PEPs to activate and de-activate the policy according to the time 
period specified. This table together with the 
ipSecPolicyTimePeriodGroupTable provides a way to specify policy 
valid periods   

The attributes and their formats are the same as that of the 
PolicyTimePeriodCondition class in [PCIM}. This consistency should 
help in constructing the PIB from the information model or schema. 

2.17 ipSecPolicyTimePeriodGroupTable  

The ipSecPolicyTimePeriodTable is able to specify a single time 
period over multiple days (e.g., 8:00-10:00 am every Friday). This 
table allows one to specify multiple time periods over multiple days 
(e.g., 8:00-10:00 am and 2:00-5:00 pm every Friday) by putting 
multiple rows of the ipSecPolicyTimePeriodTable into one group.  


3. The IPSec PIB 

IPSEC-BASE-PIB PIB-DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN  

IMPORTS  







Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 5] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

  Unsigned32, MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE  
       FROM COPS-PR-SPPI  
  OBJECT-IDENTITY  
       FROM SNMPv2-SMI 
  TruthValue, TEXTUAL-CONVENTION  
       FROM SNMPv2-TC  
  PolicyInstanceId, PolicyReferenceId  
       FROM COPS-PR-SPPI; 
  RoleCombination  
       FROM POLICY-FRAMEWORK-PIB;  

ipSecPolicyPib MODULE-IDENTITY  
  CLIENT-TYPE { tbd -- IPSec Client Type }  
  LAST-UPDATED "200007101800Z"  
  ORGANIZATION "IETF ipsp WG"  
  CONTACT-INFO "  
                 Man Li  
                 Nokia  
                 5 Wayside Road,  
                 Burlington, MA 01803  
                 Phone: +1 781 993 3923  
                 Email: man.m.li@nokia.com  

   
                 Avri Doria 
                 Nortel Networks 
                 600 Technology Park Drive 
                 Billerica, MA 01821 
                 Phone: +1 401 663 5024 
                 Email: avri@nortelnetworks.com  

   
                 Jamie Jason 
                 Intel Corporation 
                 MS JF3-206 
                 2111 NE 25th Ave. 
                 Hillsboro, OR 97124 
                 Phone: +1 503 264 9531 
                 Fax: +1 503 264 9428 
                 E-Mail: jamie.jason@intel.com 
                  

    DESCRIPTION  

       "This PIB module contains a set of policy rule classes that 
       describe IPSec policies."  

       ::= { tbd }  



Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 6] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecBase OBJECT-IDENTITY 
    STATUS current 
    DESCRIPTION 
  "This group specifies the basics of IPSec policy.  " 
    ::= { ipSecPolicyPib 1 } 

   ipSecSecurityAssociation OBJECT-IDENTITY 
    STATUS current 
    DESCRIPTION 
  "This group specifies attributes related to IPSec Security 
  Associations" 
    ::= { ipSecPolicyPib 2 } 

   ipSecIkeAssociation OBJECT-IDENTITY 
    STATUS current 
    DESCRIPTION 
  "This group specifies attributes related to IKE Security 
  Associations" 
    ::= { ipSecPolicyPib 3 } 

   ipSecEspTransform OBJECT-IDENTITY 
    STATUS current 
    DESCRIPTION 
  "This group specifies attributes related to ESP Transform" 
    ::= { ipSecPolicyPib 4 } 

   ipSecAhTransform OBJECT-IDENTITY 
    STATUS current 
    DESCRIPTION 
  "This group specifies attributes related to AH Transform" 
    ::= { ipSecPolicyPib 5 } 

   ipSecCompTransform OBJECT-IDENTITY 
    STATUS current 
    DESCRIPTION 
  "This group specifies attributes related to IPSecComp Transform" 
    ::= { ipSecPolicyPib 6 } 

   






Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 7] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

  ipSecPolicyTimePeriod OBJECT-IDENTITY 
    STATUS current 
    DESCRIPTION 
  "This group specifies the time periods during which a policy rule 
  is valid.  " 
    ::= { ipSecPolicyPib 7 } 

     
  -- 
  -- 
  -- The ipSecSelectorTable 
  -- 

     
  ipSecSelectorTable OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IpSecSelectorEntry 
    POLICY-ACCESS install 
    STATUS current 
    DESCRIPTION 
  "Specifies IPSec address selector table" 
    INDEX { ipSecSelectorPrid } 
    UNIQUENESS { 
      SrcAddressType, 
      DstAddressType, 
      DstAddrMask, 
      SrcAddrMask, 
      DestAddrMin, 
      DestAddrMax, 
      SrcAddrMin, 
      SrcAddrMax, 
      Protocol, 
      SrcPortMin, 
      SrcPortMax, 
      DstPortMin, 
      DstPortMax 
      } 
    ::= { ipSecBase  1 } 

   ipSecSelectorEntry OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX IpSecSelectorEntry 
    STATUS current 
    DESCRIPTION 
  "Specifies an instance of this class" 
    ::= { ipSecSelectorTable 1 } 

   



Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 8] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

  IpSecSelectorEntry ::= SEQUENCE { 
   ipSecSelectorPrid 
                         PolicyInstanceId, 
   ipSecSelectorSrcAddressType 
                                    INTEGER, 
   ipSecSelectorDstAddressType 
                                    INTEGER, 
    ipSecSelectorDstAddrMask OCTET STRING, 
    ipSecSelectorSrcAddrMask OCTET STRING, 
    ipSecSelectorDestAddrMin OCTET STRING, 
    ipSecSelectorDestAddrMax OCTET STRING, 
    ipSecSelectorSrcAddrMin OCTET STRING, 
    ipSecSelectorSrcAddrMax OCTET STRING, 
   ipSecSelectorProtocol 
                            INTEGER, 
   ipSecSelectorSrcPortMin 
                                INTEGER, 
   ipSecSelectorSrcPortMax 
                                INTEGER, 
   ipSecSelectorDstPortMin 
                                INTEGER, 
   ipSecSelectorDstPortMax 
                                INTEGER, 
   ipSecSelectorOrder 
                         Unsigned32, 
   ipSecSelectorGroupId 
                           Unsigned32 
  } 
   

  ipSecSelectorPrid OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX PolicyInstanceId 
    STATUS current 
    DESCRIPTION 
  "An integer index to uniquely identify an instance of this class" 
    ::= { ipSecSelectorEntry  1 } 

   ipSecSelectorSrcAddressType OBJECT-TYPE 
    SYNTAX INTEGER { 
      ipV4(1), 
      ipV6(2), 
      fqdn(3) 
      } 
    STATUS current 
    DESCRIPTION 
  "Specifies the source address type. This also controls the length 
  of the OCTET STRING for the source address objects. 
  A value of IPv4 specifies an IPv4 address and an octet string of 
  length 4. 
  A value of IPv6 specifies an IPv6 address and an octet string of 
  length 16. 
  A value of FQDN specifies a fully qualified domain name and an 
  octet string of variable length." 
    ::= { ipSecSelectorEntry  2 } 

   




Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 9] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecSelectorDstAddressType OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER { 
       ipV4(1), 
       ipV6(2), 
       fqdn(3) 
       } 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the destination address type. This also controls the 
   length of the OCTET STRING for the destination address objects. 
   A value of IPv4 specifies an IPv4 address and an octet string of 
   length 4. 
   A value of IPv6 specifies an IPv6 address and an octet string of 
   length 16. 
   A value of FQDN specifies a fully qualified domain name and an 
   octet string of variable length." 
     ::= { ipSecSelectorEntry  3 } 

    ipSecSelectorDstAddrMask OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX OCTET STRING 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "A mask for the matching of the destination IP address. A zero 
   bit in the mask means that the corresponding bit in the address 
   always matches. The type of this address is based on the 
   ipSecAddressSelectorDstAddressType." 
     ::= { ipSecSelectorEntry  4 } 

    ipSecSelectorSrcAddrMask OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX OCTET STRING 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "A mask for the matching of the source IP address. A zero bit in 
   the mask means that the corresponding bit in the address always 
   matches. The type of this address is based on the 
   ipSecAddressSelectorSrcAddressType." 
     ::= { ipSecSelectorEntry  5 } 

    









Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 10] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecSelectorDestAddrMin OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX OCTET STRING 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the destination end point address or fully qualified 
   domain name. 
    The length of the string is based upon the address type. 
    A value of all zero (e.g., IPv4 0.0.0.0) accompanied by the 
   ipSecSelectorDstAddrMask of all zero means a wild-carded address, 
   i.e., all addresses match. 
    A value of all zero accompanied by the ipSecSelectorDstAddrMask 
   of all one (e.g., IPv4 255.255.255.255) means all addresses 
   protected by the gateway. " 
     ::= { ipSecSelectorEntry  6 } 

    ipSecSelectorDestAddrMax OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX OCTET STRING 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "If a range of addresses are being used then this sepcifies the 
   ending destination address. The type of this address must be the 
   same as the ipSecSelectorDestAddrMin. 
    If no range is specified or a fully qualified domain name is used 
   then this object must be a 0 length octet string." 
     ::= { ipSecSelectorEntry  7 } 

    

















Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 11] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecSelectorSrcAddrMin OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX OCTET STRING 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the source address or fully qualified domain name. 
    The length of the string is based upon the address type. 
    A value of all zero (e.g., IPv4 0.0.0.0) accompanied by the 
   ipSecSelectorSrcAddrMask of all zero means a wild-carded address, 
   i.e., all addresses match. 
    A value of all zero accompanied by the ipSecSelectorSrcAddrMask 
   of all one (e.g., IPv4 255.255.255.255) means all addresses 
   protected by the gateway. " 
     ::= { ipSecSelectorEntry  8 } 

    ipSecSelectorSrcAddrMax OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX OCTET STRING 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "If a range of addresses are being used then this specifies the 
   ending source address. The type of this address must be the same 
   as the ipSecSelectorSrcAddrMin. 
    If no range is specified or a fully qualified domain name is used 
   then this object must be a 0 length octet string." 
     ::= { ipSecSelectorEntry  9 } 

    ipSecSelectorProtocol OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER (0..255) 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "The IP protocol to match against the packet's protocol. A value 
   of zero means match all." 
     ::= { ipSecSelectorEntry  10 } 

    ipSecSelectorSrcPortMin OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER (0..65535) 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the first layer 4 source port number of a range of 
   ports." 
     ::= { ipSecSelectorEntry  11 } 

    


Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 12] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecSelectorSrcPortMax OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER (0..65535) 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the last layer 4 source port in the range.  If a range 
   of ports is not being used then this object must have a value of 
   0. Otherwise, this value should be greater than that specified by 
   ipSecSelectorSrcPortMin." 
     ::= { ipSecSelectorEntry  12 } 

    ipSecSelectorDstPortMin OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER (0..65535) 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the first layer 4 destination port number of a range 
   of ports" 
     ::= { ipSecSelectorEntry  13 } 

    ipSecSelectorDstPortMax OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER (0..65535) 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the last layer 4 destination port in the range. If a 
   range of ports is not being used then this object must have a 
   value of 0. Otherwise, this value should be greater than that 
   specified by ipSecSelectorDstPortMin." 
     ::= { ipSecSelectorEntry  14 } 

    ipSecSelectorOrder OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that specifies the precedence order of this selector, 
   within the ipSecSelectorTable. A given precedence order is 
   positioned before one with a higher-valued precedence order. " 
     ::= { ipSecSelectorEntry  15 } 

    









Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 13] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecSelectorGroupId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the IPSec selector group this selector belongs to. 
   Selectors in the same group are provided with the same service." 
     ::= { ipSecSelectorEntry  16 } 

      -- 
   -- 
   -- The ipSecActionTable 
   -- 

      
   ipSecActionTable OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IpSecActionEntry 
     POLICY-ACCESS install 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies IPSec action. It ties IPSec action with IPSec security 
   association and IKE association." 
     INDEX { ipSecActionPrid } 
     UNIQUENESS { 
       Action, 
       RemoteGatewayAddressType, 
       RemoteGatewayAddress, 
       IpSecSecurityAssociationId, 
       IPSecIkeActionId 
       } 
     ::= { ipSecBase  2 } 

    ipSecActionEntry OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX IpSecActionEntry 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecActionTable 1 } 

    








Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 14] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   IpSecActionEntry ::= SEQUENCE { 
    ipSecActionPrid 
                         PolicyInstanceId, 
    ipSecActionAction 
                          INTEGER, 
    ipSecActionRemoteGatewayAddressType 
                                               INTEGER, 
     ipSecActionRemoteGatewayAddress OCTET STRING, 
    ipSecActionIpSecSecurityAssociationId 
                                                PolicyReferenceId, 
    ipSecActionIPSecIkeActionId 
                                      PolicyReferenceId 
   } 

    
   ipSecActionPrid OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyInstanceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer index to uniquely identify an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecActionEntry  1 } 

    ipSecActionAction OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER { 
       byPass(1), 
       discard(2), 
       transport(3), 
       tunnel(4) 
       } 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the IPSec action to be applied to the traffic. 
   ByPass(1) means that the packet should pass in clear. Discard (2) 
   means that the packet should be denied. Transport (3) means that 
   the packet should be protected with a security association in 
   transport mode. Tunnel (4) means that the packet should be 
   protected with a security association in tunnel mode.  If Tunnel 
   (4) is specified, ipSecActionRemoteGatewayAddressType and 
   ipSecActionRemoteGateway must also be specified" 
     ::= { ipSecActionEntry  2 } 

    












Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 15] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecActionRemoteGatewayAddressType OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER { 
       ipV4(1), 
       ipV6(2), 
       fqdn(3) 
       } 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "When ipSecActionAction specifies Tunnel (4), this attribute 
   specifies the remote gateway address type. This also controls the 
   length of the OCTET STRING for the 
   ipSecActionRemoteGatewayAddress attribute. 
   A value of IPv4 specifies an IPv4 address and an octet string of 
   length 4. 
   A value of IPv6 specifies an IPv6 address and an octet string of 
   length 16. 
   A value of FQDN specifies a fully qualified domain name and an 
   octet string of variable length. 
    If ipSecActionAction does NOT specify Tunnel (4), this object 
   must be a 0 length integer." 
     ::= { ipSecActionEntry  3 } 

    ipSecActionRemoteGatewayAddress OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX OCTET STRING 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "When ipSecActionAction specifies Tunnel (4), this attribute 
   specifies the address of the point where the tunnel terminates on 
   the remote gateway. The length of the string is based upon the 
   address type specified in ipSecActionRemoteGatewayAddressType. 
    If ipSecActionAction does NOT specify Tunnel (4), this attribute 
   must be a 0 length octet string." 
     ::= { ipSecActionEntry  4 } 

    












Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 16] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecActionIpSecSecurityAssociationId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyReferenceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that identifies an IPSec association, specified in 
   ipSecSecurityAssociationTable, that is associated with this 
   action.  
   When ipSecActionAction attribute specifies Bypass (1) or Discard 
   (2), this attribute must have a value of zero. Otherwise, its 
   value must be greater than zero." 
     ::= { ipSecActionEntry  5 } 

    ipSecActionIPSecIkeActionId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyReferenceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that identifies an IKE action, specified in 
   ipSecIkeActionTable, that is associated with this action.  
   When ipSecActionAction attribute specifies Bypass (1) or Discard 
   (2), This attribute must have a value of zero. Otherwise, its 
   value must be greater than zero." 
     ::= { ipSecActionEntry  6 } 

      -- 
   -- 
   -- The ipSecRuleTable 
   -- 

      

















Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 17] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecRuleTable OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IpSecRuleEntry 
     POLICY-ACCESS install 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies IPSec rules. This is the table that ties selectors and 
   IPSec actions together." 
     INDEX { ipSecRulePrid } 
     UNIQUENESS { 
       Roles, 
       Direction, 
       IpSecSelectorGroupId, 
       IpSecActionId, 
       IPSecRuleTimePeriodGroupId 
       } 
     ::= { ipSecBase  3 } 

    ipSecRuleEntry OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX IpSecRuleEntry 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecRuleTable 1 } 

    IpSecRuleEntry ::= SEQUENCE { 
    ipSecRulePrid 
                      PolicyInstanceId, 
    ipSecRuleRoles 
                        RoleCombination, 
    ipSecRuleDirection 
                           INTEGER, 
    ipSecRuleIpSecSelectorGroupId 
                                        PolicyReferenceId, 
    ipSecRuleIpSecActionId 
                                PolicyReferenceId, 
    ipSecRuleIPSecRuleTimePeriodGroupId 
                                             PolicyReferenceId 
   } 

    
   ipSecRulePrid OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyInstanceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer index to uniquely identify an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecRuleEntry  1 } 

    







Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 18] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecRuleRoles OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX RoleCombination 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the role combinations of the interface to which this 
   IPSec rule should apply." 
     ::= { ipSecRuleEntry  2 } 

    ipSecRuleDirection OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER { 
       in(1), 
       out(2), 
       bi-directional(3) 
       } 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the direction of traffic to which this rule should 
   apply." 
     ::= { ipSecRuleEntry  3 } 

    ipSecRuleIpSecSelectorGroupId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyReferenceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "This attribute identifies the IPSec selector group, defined in 
   ipSecSelectorTable, that is associated with this rule. This value 
   must match an ipSecSelectorGroupId attribute in the 
   ipSecSelectorTable. " 
     ::= { ipSecRuleEntry  4 } 

    ipSecRuleIpSecActionId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyReferenceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "This attribute identifies the IPSec action, defined in 
   ipSecActionTable, that is associated with this rule." 
     ::= { ipSecRuleEntry  5 } 

    








Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 19] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecRuleIPSecRuleTimePeriodGroupId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyReferenceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "This attribute identifies an IPSec rule time period group,  
   sepcified in ipSecRuleTimePeriodGroupTable, that is associated 
   with this rule 
    A value of zero indicates that this IPSec rule is always valid 
   until being deleted." 
     ::= { ipSecRuleEntry  6 } 

      -- 
   -- 
   -- The ipSecSecurityAssociationTable 
   -- 

      
   ipSecSecurityAssociationTable OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IpSecSecurityAssociationEntry 
     POLICY-ACCESS install 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies attributes associated with IPSec associations" 
     INDEX { ipSecSecurityAssociationPrid } 
     UNIQUENESS { 
       RefreshThresholdSeconds, 
       RefreshThresholdKilobytes, 
       MinLifetimeSeconds, 
       MinLifetimeKilobytes, 
       TrafficIdleTime, 
       UsePfs, 
       UseIkeGroup, 
       DhGroup, 
       Granularity, 
       ProposalGroupId 
       } 
     ::= { ipSecSecurityAssociation  1 } 

    








Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 20] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecSecurityAssociationEntry OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX IpSecSecurityAssociationEntry 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecSecurityAssociationTable 1 } 

    IpSecSecurityAssociationEntry ::= SEQUENCE { 
    ipSecSecurityAssociationPrid 
                                   PolicyInstanceId, 
    ipSecSecurityAssociationRefreshThresholdSeconds 
                                                          INTEGER, 
    ipSecSecurityAssociationRefreshThresholdKilobytes 
                                                             INTEGER, 
    ipSecSecurityAssociationMinLifetimeSeconds 
                                                     Unsigned32, 
    ipSecSecurityAssociationMinLifetimeKilobytes 
                                                      Unsigned32, 
    ipSecSecurityAssociationTrafficIdleTime 
                                                 Unsigned32, 
    ipSecSecurityAssociationUsePfs 
                                     TruthValue, 
    ipSecSecurityAssociationUseIkeGroup 
                                             TruthValue, 
    ipSecSecurityAssociationDhGroup 
                                      Unsigned32, 
    ipSecSecurityAssociationGranularity 
                                             INTEGER, 
    ipSecSecurityAssociationProposalGroupId 
                                                 PolicyReferenceId 
   } 

    
   ipSecSecurityAssociationPrid OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyInstanceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer index to uniquely identify an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecSecurityAssociationEntry  1 } 

    ipSecSecurityAssociationRefreshThresholdSeconds OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER (1..100) 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the percentage of expiration (in other words, the 
   refresh threshold) of an established SA's seconds lifetime at 
   which to begin re-negotiation of the SA. 
   A value of 100 means that re-negotiation does not occur until the 
   seconds lifetime value has expired." 
     ::= { ipSecSecurityAssociationEntry  2 } 

    







Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 21] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecSecurityAssociationRefreshThresholdKilobytes OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER (1..100) 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the percentage of expiration of an established SA's 
   kilobyte lifetime at which to begin re-negotiation of the SA. 
   A value of 100 means that re-negotiation does not occur until the 
   seconds lifetime value has expired. 
       " 
     ::= { ipSecSecurityAssociationEntry  3 } 

    ipSecSecurityAssociationMinLifetimeSeconds OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the minimum SA seconds lifetime that will be accepted 
   from a peer while negotiating an SA based upon this action.   
   A value of zero indicates that there is no minimum lifetime 
   enforced." 
     ::= { ipSecSecurityAssociationEntry  4 } 

    ipSecSecurityAssociationMinLifetimeKilobytes OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the minimum kilobyte lifetime that will be accepted 
   from a negotiating peer while negotiating an SA based upon this 
   action.   
   A value of zero indicates that there is no minimum lifetime 
   enforced." 
     ::= { ipSecSecurityAssociationEntry  5 } 

    ipSecSecurityAssociationTrafficIdleTime OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the amount of time in seconds an SA may remain idle 
   (in other words, no traffic protected by the SA) before it is 
   deleted. 
   A value of zero indicates that there is no idle time detection. 
   The expiration of the SA is determined by the expiration of one 
   of the lifetime values." 
     ::= { ipSecSecurityAssociationEntry  6 } 

    



Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 22] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecSecurityAssociationUsePfs OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX TruthValue 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "If true, PFS should be used when negotiating the phase two IPSec 
   SA. 
       " 
     ::= { ipSecSecurityAssociationEntry  7 } 

    ipSecSecurityAssociationUseIkeGroup OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX TruthValue 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "If true, the phase two DH group number should be the same as 
   that of phase 1. Otherwise, the group number specified by the 
   ipSecSecurityAssociationDhGroup attribute should be used. 
   This attribute is ignored if ipSecSecurityAssociationUsePfs is 
   false." 
     ::= { ipSecSecurityAssociationEntry  8 } 

    ipSecSecurityAssociationDhGroup OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "If PFS should be used during IKE phase two and 
   ipSecSecurityAssociationUseIkeGroup is false, this attribute 
   specifies the Diffie-Hellman group to use.  
   This attribute is ignored if ipSecSecurityAssociationUsePfs is 
   false." 
     ::= { ipSecSecurityAssociationEntry  9 } 

    















Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 23] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecSecurityAssociationGranularity OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER { 
       wide(1), 
       narrow(2) 
       } 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies how this security association may be used.  
   A value of 1 (Wide) indicates that this security association may 
   be used by all packets that match the same selector that is 
   matched by the packet triggering the establishment of this 
   association.  
   A value of 2  (Narrow) indicates that this security association 
   can be used only by packets that have exactly the same selector 
   attribute values as that of the packet triggering the 
   establishment of this association.  
    "   ::= { ipSecSecurityAssociationEntry  10 } 
    ipSecSecurityAssociationProposalGroupId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyReferenceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that identifies the IPSec proposal group, specified 
   in ipSecProposalGroupTable, that is associated with this action." 
     ::= { ipSecSecurityAssociationEntry  11 } 

      -- 
   -- 
   -- The ipSecProposalGroupTable 
   -- 

      













Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 24] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecProposalGroupTable OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IpSecProposalGroupEntry 
     POLICY-ACCESS install 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies IPSec proposal groups. Proposals within a group are 
   ORed with preference order." 
     INDEX { ipSecProposalGroupPrid } 
     UNIQUENESS { 
       ProposalGroupId, 
       ProposalId 
       } 
     ::= { ipSecSecurityAssociation  2 } 

    ipSecProposalGroupEntry OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX IpSecProposalGroupEntry 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecProposalGroupTable 1 } 

    IpSecProposalGroupEntry ::= SEQUENCE { 
    ipSecProposalGroupPrid 
                               PolicyInstanceId, 
    ipSecProposalGroupProposalGroupId 
                                            Unsigned32, 
    ipSecProposalGroupProposalId 
                                     PolicyReferenceId, 
    ipSecProposalGroupOrder 
                                 Unsigned32 
   } 

    
   ipSecProposalGroupPrid OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyInstanceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer index to uniquely identify an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecProposalGroupEntry  1 } 

    ipSecProposalGroupProposalGroupId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that specifies an IPSec proposal group" 
     ::= { ipSecProposalGroupEntry  2 } 

    




Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 25] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecProposalGroupProposalId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyReferenceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that identifies an IPSec Proposal, specified by 
   ipSecProposalTable, that is included in this group." 
     ::= { ipSecProposalGroupEntry  3 } 

    ipSecProposalGroupOrder OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that specifies the precedence order, within the 
   ProposalGroup, of the proposal identified by 
   ipSecProposalGroupProposalId. Proposals within a group are ORed 
   with preference order. A given precedence order is positioned 
   before one with a higher-valued precedence order." 
     ::= { ipSecProposalGroupEntry  4 } 

      
   -- 
   -- 
   -- The ipSecProposalTable 

   -- 
      
   ipSecProposalTable OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IpSecProposalEntry 
     POLICY-ACCESS install 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an IPSec proposal. It has references to ESP, AH and 
   IPComp Transform groups. Within a proposal, different types of 
   transforms are ANDed. Within one type of transforms, the choices 
   are ORed with preference order." 
     INDEX { ipSecProposalPrid } 
     UNIQUENESS { 
       LifetimeKilobytes, 
       LifetimeSeconds, 
       EspTransformGroupId, 
       AhTransformGroupId, 
       CompTransformGroupId 
       } 
     ::= { ipSecSecurityAssociation  3 } 

    



Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 26] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecProposalEntry OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX IpSecProposalEntry 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecProposalTable 1 } 

    IpSecProposalEntry ::= SEQUENCE { 
    ipSecProposalPrid 
                           PolicyInstanceId, 
    ipSecProposalLifetimeKilobytes 
                                       Unsigned32, 
    ipSecProposalLifetimeSeconds 
                                      Unsigned32, 
    ipSecProposalEspTransformGroupId 
                                          PolicyReferenceId, 
    ipSecProposalAhTransformGroupId 
                                          PolicyReferenceId, 
    ipSecProposalCompTransformGroupId 
                                           PolicyReferenceId 
   } 

    
   ipSecProposalPrid OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyInstanceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer index to uniquely identify an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecProposalEntry  1 } 

    ipSecProposalLifetimeKilobytes OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the kilobyte lifetime for this particular proposal.   
    A value of zero indicates that there is no kilobyte lifetime. 
       " 
     ::= { ipSecProposalEntry  2 } 

    ipSecProposalLifetimeSeconds OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the seconds lifetime for this particular proposal.   
    A value of zero indicates that the lifetime value defaults to 8 
   hours.  
       " 
     ::= { ipSecProposalEntry  3 } 

    


Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 27] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecProposalEspTransformGroupId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyReferenceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that identifies the ESP transform group, specified in 
   ipSecEspTransformGroupTable, that is associated with this 
   proposal." 
     ::= { ipSecProposalEntry  4 } 

    ipSecProposalAhTransformGroupId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyReferenceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that identifies the AH transform group, specified in 
   ipSecAhTransformGroupTable, that is associated with this 
   proposal." 
     ::= { ipSecProposalEntry  5 } 

    ipSecProposalCompTransformGroupId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyReferenceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that identifies the IPComp transform group, specified 
   in ipSecCompTransformGroupTable, that is associated with this 
   proposal." 
     ::= { ipSecProposalEntry  6 } 

      -- 
   -- 
   -- The ipSecIkeActionTable 

   -- 














Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 28] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

      
   ipSecIkeActionTable OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IpSecIkeActionEntry 
     POLICY-ACCESS install 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies attributes related to IKE action" 
     INDEX { ipSecIkeActionPrid } 
     UNIQUENESS { 
       RefreshThresholdSeconds, 
       RefreshThresholdKilobytes, 
       MinLiftetimeSeconds, 
       MinLifetimeKilobytes, 
       TrafficIdleTime, 
       ExchangeMode, 
       RefreshThresholdDerivedKeys, 
       UseIkeIdentityType, 
       IKEProposalGroupId 
       } 
     ::= { ipSecIkeAssociation  1 } 

    ipSecIkeActionEntry OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX IpSecIkeActionEntry 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecIkeActionTable 1 } 

    IpSecIkeActionEntry ::= SEQUENCE { 
    ipSecIkeActionPrid 
                            PolicyInstanceId, 
    ipSecIkeActionRefreshThresholdSeconds 
                                                 INTEGER, 
    ipSecIkeActionRefreshThresholdKilobytes 
                                                  INTEGER, 
    ipSecIkeActionMinLiftetimeSeconds 
                                           Unsigned32, 
    ipSecIkeActionMinLifetimeKilobytes 
                                            Unsigned32, 
    ipSecIkeActionTrafficIdleTime 
                                        Unsigned32, 
    ipSecIkeActionExchangeMode 
                                    INTEGER, 
    ipSecIkeActionRefreshThresholdDerivedKeys 
                                                    INTEGER, 
    ipSecIkeActionUseIkeIdentityType 
                                           INTEGER, 
    ipSecIkeActionIKEProposalGroupId 
                                           PolicyReferenceId 
   } 

    







Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 29] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecIkeActionPrid OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyInstanceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer index to uniquely identify an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecIkeActionEntry  1 } 

    ipSecIkeActionRefreshThresholdSeconds OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER (1..100) 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the percentage of expiration (in other words, the 
   refresh threshold) of an established SA's seconds lifetime at 
   which to begin re-negotiation of the SA. 
    A value of 100 means that re-negotiation does not occur until the 
   seconds lifetime value has expired. 
       " 
     ::= { ipSecIkeActionEntry  2 } 

    ipSecIkeActionRefreshThresholdKilobytes OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER (1..100) 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the percentage of expiration of an established SA's 
   kilobyte lifetime at which to begin re-negotiation of the SA. 
    A value of 100 means that re-negotiation does not occur until the 
   seconds lifetime value has expired." 
     ::= { ipSecIkeActionEntry  3 } 

    ipSecIkeActionMinLiftetimeSeconds OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the minimum SA seconds lifetime that will be 
   accepted from a peer while negotiating an SA based upon this 
   action.   
    A value of zero indicates that there is no minimum lifetime 
   enforced." 
     ::= { ipSecIkeActionEntry  4 } 

    




Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 30] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecIkeActionMinLifetimeKilobytes OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the minimum kilobyte lifetime that will be accepted 
   from a negotiating peer while negotiating an SA based upon this 
   action.   
    A value of zero indicates that there is no minimum lifetime 
   enforced." 
     ::= { ipSecIkeActionEntry  5 } 

    ipSecIkeActionTrafficIdleTime OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the amount of time in seconds an SA may remain idle 
   (in other words, no traffic protected by the SA) before it is 
   deleted. 
   A value of zero indicates that there is no idle time detection. 
   The expiration of the SA is determined by the expiration of one 
   of the lifetime values. 
       " 
     ::= { ipSecIkeActionEntry  6 } 

    





















Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 31] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecIkeActionExchangeMode OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER { 
       baseMode(1), 
       mainMode(2), 
       aggressiveMode(4) 
       } 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the negotiation mode that the IKE server will use for 
   phase one. 
       " 
     ::= { ipSecIkeActionEntry  7 } 
    ipSecIkeActionRefreshThresholdDerivedKeys OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER (1..100) 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the percentage of expiration of an established IKE 
   SA's derived keys lifetime at which to begin re-negotiation of 
   the SA. 
    A value of 100 means that re-negotiation does not occur until the 
   derived key lifetime value has expired. 
       " 
     ::= { ipSecIkeActionEntry  8 } 

    ipSecIkeActionUseIkeIdentityType OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER { 
       ipV4-Address(1), 
       fqdn(2), 
       user-Fqdn(3), 
       ipV4-Subnet(4), 
       ipV6-Address(5), 
       ipV6-Subnet(6), 
       ipV4-Address-Range(7), 
       ipV6-Address-Range(8), 
       der-Asn1-DN(9), 
       der-Asn1-GN(10), 
       key-Id(11) 
       } 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the IKE identity to use during negotiation." 
     ::= { ipSecIkeActionEntry  9 } 

    




Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 32] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecIkeActionIKEProposalGroupId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyReferenceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that identifies the IKE proposal group, specified in 
   ipSecIkeProposalGroupTable, that is associated with this action." 
     ::= { ipSecIkeActionEntry  10 } 

      -- 
   -- 
   -- The ipSecIkeProposalGroupTable 
   -- 

      
   ipSecIkeProposalGroupTable OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IpSecIkeProposalGroupEntry 
     POLICY-ACCESS install 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies IKE proposal groups. Proposals within a group are ORed 
   with preference order. " 
     INDEX { ipSecIkeProposalGroupPrid } 
     UNIQUENESS { 
       ProposalGroupId, 
       ProposalId 
       } 
     ::= { ipSecIkeAssociation  2 } 

    ipSecIkeProposalGroupEntry OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX IpSecIkeProposalGroupEntry 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecIkeProposalGroupTable 1 } 

    IpSecIkeProposalGroupEntry ::= SEQUENCE { 
    ipSecIkeProposalGroupPrid 
                                  PolicyInstanceId, 
    ipSecIkeProposalGroupProposalGroupId 
                                               Unsigned32, 
    ipSecIkeProposalGroupProposalId 
                                         PolicyReferenceId, 
    ipSecIkeProposalGroupOrder 
                                  Unsigned32 
   } 

    




Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 33] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecIkeProposalGroupPrid OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyInstanceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer index to uniquely identify an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecIkeProposalGroupEntry  1 } 

    ipSecIkeProposalGroupProposalGroupId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that uniquely identifies an IKE proposal group. " 
     ::= { ipSecIkeProposalGroupEntry  2 } 

    ipSecIkeProposalGroupProposalId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyReferenceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that identifies an IKE proposal, specified by the 
   ipSecIkeProposalTable, that is included in this group." 
     ::= { ipSecIkeProposalGroupEntry  3 } 

    ipSecIkeProposalGroupOrder OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that specifies the precedence order, within the 
   ProposalGroup, of the proposal identified by 
   ipSecIkeProposalGroupProposalId. Proposals within a group are 
   ORed with preference order. A given precedence order is 
   positioned before one with a higher-valued precedence order." 
     ::= { ipSecIkeProposalGroupEntry  4 } 

      -- 
   -- 
   -- The ipSecIkeProposalTable 

   -- 







Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 34] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

      
   ipSecIkeProposalTable OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IpSecIkeProposalEntry 
     POLICY-ACCESS install 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies attributes associated with an IKE proposal." 
     INDEX { ipSecIkeProposalPrid } 
     UNIQUENESS { 
       LifetimeSeconds, 
       LifetimeKilobytes, 
       CipherAlgorithm, 
       HashAlgorithm, 
       AuthenticationMethod, 
       LifetimeDerivedKeys, 
       PrfAlgorithm, 
       IkeDhGroup 
       } 
     ::= { ipSecIkeAssociation  3 } 

    ipSecIkeProposalEntry OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX IpSecIkeProposalEntry 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecIkeProposalTable 1 } 

    IpSecIkeProposalEntry ::= SEQUENCE { 
    ipSecIkeProposalPrid 
                              PolicyInstanceId, 
    ipSecIkeProposalLifetimeSeconds 
                                          Unsigned32, 
    ipSecIkeProposalLifetimeKilobytes 
                                           Unsigned32, 
    ipSecIkeProposalCipherAlgorithm 
                                          INTEGER, 
    ipSecIkeProposalHashAlgorithm 
                                      INTEGER, 
    ipSecIkeProposalAuthenticationMethod 
                                              INTEGER, 
    ipSecIkeProposalLifetimeDerivedKeys 
                                             Unsigned32, 
    ipSecIkeProposalPrfAlgorithm 
                                      Unsigned32, 
    ipSecIkeProposalIkeDhGroup 
                                   Unsigned32 
   } 

    








Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 35] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecIkeProposalPrid OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyInstanceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer index to uniquely identify an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecIkeProposalEntry  1 } 

    ipSecIkeProposalLifetimeSeconds OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the seconds lifetime for this particular proposal.   
    A value of zero indicates that the lifetime value defaults to 8 
   hours.  
       " 
     ::= { ipSecIkeProposalEntry  2 } 

    ipSecIkeProposalLifetimeKilobytes OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the kilobyte lifetime for this particular proposal.   
    A value of zero indicates that there is no kilobyte lifetime. 
        
       " 
     ::= { ipSecIkeProposalEntry  3 } 

    ipSecIkeProposalCipherAlgorithm OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER { 
       des-CBC(1), 
       idea-CBC(2), 
       blowfish-CBC(3), 
       rc5-R16-B64-CBC(4), 
       tripleDes-CBC(5), 
       cast-CBC(6) 
       } 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the encryption algorithm to propose for the IKE 
   association. 
       " 
     ::= { ipSecIkeProposalEntry  4 } 

    


Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 36] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecIkeProposalHashAlgorithm OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER { 
       md5(1), 
       sha-1(2), 
       tiger(3) 
       } 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the hash algorithm to propose for the IKE association. 
       " 
     ::= { ipSecIkeProposalEntry  5 } 

    ipSecIkeProposalAuthenticationMethod OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER { 
       presharedKey(1), 
       dssSignatures(2), 
       rsaSignatures(3), 
       rsaEncryption(4), 
       revisedRsaEncryption(5), 
       kerberos(6) 
       } 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the authentication method to propose for the IKE 
   association. 
       " 
     ::= { ipSecIkeProposalEntry  6 } 

    ipSecIkeProposalLifetimeDerivedKeys OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the number of times the IKE phase one key may be used 
   to derive an IKE phase two key. A value of zero indicates that 
   the number of times an IKE phase one key may be used to derive an 
   IKE phase two key is limited by the seconds and/or kilobyte 
   lifetimes. 
       " 
     ::= { ipSecIkeProposalEntry  7 } 

    







Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 37] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecIkeProposalPrfAlgorithm OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the Pseudo-Random Function (PRF) to propose for the 
   IKE association. 
       " 
     ::= { ipSecIkeProposalEntry  8 } 

    ipSecIkeProposalIkeDhGroup OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the Diffie-Hellman group to propose for the IKE 
   association.  " 
     ::= { ipSecIkeProposalEntry  9 } 

      -- 
   -- 
   -- The ipSecEspTransformGroupTable 
   -- 

      
   ipSecEspTransformGroupTable OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IpSecEspTransformGroupEntry 
     POLICY-ACCESS install 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an ESP transform group. Within a transform group, the 
   choices are ORed with preference order." 
     INDEX { ipSecEspTransformGroupPrid } 
     UNIQUENESS { 
       TransformGroupId, 
       TransformId 
       } 
     ::= { ipSecEspTransform  1 } 

    ipSecEspTransformGroupEntry OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX IpSecEspTransformGroupEntry 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecEspTransformGroupTable 1 } 

    


Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 38] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   IpSecEspTransformGroupEntry ::= SEQUENCE { 
    ipSecEspTransformGroupPrid 
                                  PolicyInstanceId, 
    ipSecEspTransformGroupTransformGroupId 
                                                Unsigned32, 
    ipSecEspTransformGroupTransformId 
                                        PolicyReferenceId, 
    ipSecEspTransformGroupOrder 
                                  Unsigned32 
   } 

    
   ipSecEspTransformGroupPrid OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyInstanceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer index to uniquely identify an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecEspTransformGroupEntry  1 } 

    ipSecEspTransformGroupTransformGroupId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that identifies a group of ESP transforms" 
     ::= { ipSecEspTransformGroupEntry  2 } 

    ipSecEspTransformGroupTransformId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyReferenceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that identifies an ESP transform, specified by 
   ipSecEspTransformTable, that is included in this group." 
     ::= { ipSecEspTransformGroupEntry  3 } 

    ipSecEspTransformGroupOrder OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that specifies the precedence order, within the 
   ipSecEspTransformGroup, of the transform identified by 
   ipSecEspTransformGroupEspProposalId. Transforms within a group 
   are ORed with preference order. A given precedence order is 
   positioned before one with a higher-valued precedence order." 
     ::= { ipSecEspTransformGroupEntry  4 } 

    






Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 39] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

     
   -- 
   -- 
   -- The ipSecEspTransformTable 
   -- 

      
   ipSecEspTransformTable OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IpSecEspTransformEntry 
     POLICY-ACCESS install 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an ESP transform." 
     INDEX { ipSecEspTransformPrid } 
     UNIQUENESS { 
       IntegrityTransformId, 
       CipherTransformId, 
       CipherKeyRounds, 
       CipherKeyLength 
       } 
     ::= { ipSecEspTransform  2 } 

    ipSecEspTransformEntry OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX IpSecEspTransformEntry 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecEspTransformTable 1 } 

    IpSecEspTransformEntry ::= SEQUENCE { 
    ipSecEspTransformPrid 
                               PolicyInstanceId, 
    ipSecEspTransformIntegrityTransformId 
                                               INTEGER, 
    ipSecEspTransformCipherTransformId 
                                            INTEGER, 
    ipSecEspTransformCipherKeyRounds 
                                           Unsigned32, 
    ipSecEspTransformCipherKeyLength 
                                           Unsigned32 
   } 

    
   ipSecEspTransformPrid OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyInstanceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer index to uniquely identify an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecEspTransformEntry  1 } 

    



Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 40] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecEspTransformIntegrityTransformId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER { 
       none(0), 
       hmacMd5(1), 
       hmacSha(2), 
       desMac(3), 
       kpdk(4) 
       } 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the ESP integrity algorithm to propose." 
     ::= { ipSecEspTransformEntry  2 } 

    ipSecEspTransformCipherTransformId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER { 
       desIV64(1), 
       des(2), 
       tripleDES(3), 
       rc5(4), 
       idea(5), 
       cast(6), 
       blowfish(7), 
       tripleIDEA(8), 
       desIV32(9), 
       rc4(10), 
       null(11) 
       } 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the ESP cipher/encryption algorithm to propose. 
       " 
     ::= { ipSecEspTransformEntry  3 } 

    ipSecEspTransformCipherKeyRounds OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the number of key rounds for the ESP cipher 
   algorithm specified by the attribute 
   ipSecEspTransformCipherTransformId. 
       " 
     ::= { ipSecEspTransformEntry  4 } 

    





Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 41] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecEspTransformCipherKeyLength OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the length of the ESP cipher key in bits. 
       " 
     ::= { ipSecEspTransformEntry  5 } 

      -- 
   -- 
   -- The ipSecAhTransformGroupTable 
   -- 

      
   ipSecAhTransformGroupTable OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IpSecAhTransformGroupEntry 
     POLICY-ACCESS install 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an AH transform group. Within a transform group, the 
   choices are ORed with preference order." 
     INDEX { ipSecAhTransformGroupPrid } 
     UNIQUENESS { 
       TransformGroupId, 
       TransformId 
       } 
     ::= { ipSecAhTransform  1 } 

    ipSecAhTransformGroupEntry OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX IpSecAhTransformGroupEntry 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecAhTransformGroupTable 1 } 

    IpSecAhTransformGroupEntry ::= SEQUENCE { 
    ipSecAhTransformGroupPrid 
                                PolicyInstanceId, 
    ipSecAhTransformGroupTransformGroupId 
                                               Unsigned32, 
    ipSecAhTransformGroupTransformId 
                                         PolicyReferenceId, 
    ipSecAhTransformGroupOrder 
                                 Unsigned32 
   } 

    




Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 42] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecAhTransformGroupPrid OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyInstanceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer index to uniquely identify an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecAhTransformGroupEntry  1 } 

    ipSecAhTransformGroupTransformGroupId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that identifies an AH transform group." 
     ::= { ipSecAhTransformGroupEntry  2 } 

    ipSecAhTransformGroupTransformId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyReferenceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that identifies an AH transform, as specified in 
   ipSecAhTransformTable, that is included in this group." 
     ::= { ipSecAhTransformGroupEntry  3 } 

    ipSecAhTransformGroupOrder OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that specifies the precedence order, within the 
   ipSecAhTransformGroup, of the transform identified by 
   ipSecAhTransformGroupTransformId. Transforms within a group are 
   ORed with preference order. A given precedence order is 
   positioned before one with a higher-valued precedence order." 
     ::= { ipSecAhTransformGroupEntry  4 } 

      -- 
   -- 
   -- The ipSecAhTransformTable 
   -- 

      







Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 43] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecAhTransformTable OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IpSecAhTransformEntry 
     POLICY-ACCESS install 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an AH transform" 
     INDEX { ipSecAhTransformPrid } 
     UNIQUENESS { 
       TransformId 
       } 
     ::= { ipSecAhTransform  2 } 

    ipSecAhTransformEntry OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX IpSecAhTransformEntry 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecAhTransformTable 1 } 

    IpSecAhTransformEntry ::= SEQUENCE { 
    ipSecAhTransformPrid 
                           PolicyInstanceId, 
    ipSecAhTransformTransformId 
                                     INTEGER 
   } 

    
   ipSecAhTransformPrid OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyInstanceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer index to uniquely identify an instance of this class 
   " 
     ::= { ipSecAhTransformEntry  1 } 

    ipSecAhTransformTransformId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER { 
       md5(2), 
       sha-1(3), 
       des(4) 
       } 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the AH hash algorithm to propose" 
     ::= { ipSecAhTransformEntry  2 } 

    



Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 44] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

     
   -- 
   -- 
   -- The ipSecCompTransformGroupTable 
   -- 

      
   ipSecCompTransformGroupTable OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IpSecCompTransformGroupEntry 
     POLICY-ACCESS install 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an IPComp transform group. Within a transform group, 
   the choices are ORed with preference order." 
     INDEX { ipSecCompTransformGroupPrid } 
     UNIQUENESS { 
       TransformGroupId, 
       TransformId 
       } 
     ::= { ipSecCompTransform  1 } 

    ipSecCompTransformGroupEntry OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX IpSecCompTransformGroupEntry 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecCompTransformGroupTable 1 } 

    IpSecCompTransformGroupEntry ::= SEQUENCE { 
    ipSecCompTransformGroupPrid 
                                  PolicyInstanceId, 
    ipSecCompTransformGroupTransformGroupId 
                                                 Unsigned32, 
    ipSecCompTransformGroupTransformId 
                                           PolicyReferenceId, 
    ipSecCompTransformGroupOrder 
                                   Unsigned32 
   } 

    
   ipSecCompTransformGroupPrid OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyInstanceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer index to uniquely identify an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecCompTransformGroupEntry  1 } 

    





Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 45] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecCompTransformGroupTransformGroupId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that identifies an IPComp transform group" 
     ::= { ipSecCompTransformGroupEntry  2 } 

    ipSecCompTransformGroupTransformId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyReferenceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that identifies an IPComp Transform, specified by 
   ipSecCompTransformTable, that is included in this group." 
     ::= { ipSecCompTransformGroupEntry  3 } 

    ipSecCompTransformGroupOrder OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that specifies the precedence order, within the 
   ipSecCompTransformGroup, of the transform identified by 
   ipSecCompTransformGroupTransformId. Transforms within a group are 
   ORed with preference order. A given precedence order is 
   positioned before one with a higher-valued precedence order." 
     ::= { ipSecCompTransformGroupEntry  4 } 

      -- 
   -- 
   -- The ipSecCompTransformTable 
   -- 

      














Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 46] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecCompTransformTable OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IpSecCompTransformEntry 
     POLICY-ACCESS install 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an IPComp transform." 
     INDEX { ipSecCompTransformPrid } 
     UNIQUENESS { 
       Algorithm, 
       DictionarySize, 
       PrivateAlgorithm 
       } 
     ::= { ipSecCompTransform  2 } 

    ipSecCompTransformEntry OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX IpSecCompTransformEntry 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecCompTransformTable 1 } 

    IpSecCompTransformEntry ::= SEQUENCE { 
    ipSecCompTransformPrid 
                               PolicyInstanceId, 
    ipSecCompTransformAlgorithm 
                                   INTEGER, 
    ipSecCompTransformDictionarySize 
                                          Unsigned32, 
    ipSecCompTransformPrivateAlgorithm 
                                            Unsigned32 
   } 

    
   ipSecCompTransformPrid OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyInstanceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer index to uniquely identify an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecCompTransformEntry  1 } 

    











Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 47] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecCompTransformAlgorithm OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER { 
       oui(1), 
       deflate(2), 
       lzs(3) 
       } 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the IPComp compression algorithm to propose." 
     ::= { ipSecCompTransformEntry  2 } 

    ipSecCompTransformDictionarySize OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the log2 maximum size of the dictionary." 
     ::= { ipSecCompTransformEntry  3 } 

    ipSecCompTransformPrivateAlgorithm OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies a specific vendor algorithm that will be used.  " 
     ::= { ipSecCompTransformEntry  4 } 

      -- 
   -- 
   -- The ipSecRuleTimePeriodTable 
   -- 

      














Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 48] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecRuleTimePeriodTable OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IpSecRuleTimePeriodEntry 
     POLICY-ACCESS install 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies the time periods during which a policy rule is valid. 
   The values of second through sixth attributes in a row are ANDed 
   together to determine the validity period(s). If any of the five 
   attributes is not present, it is treated as having value always 
   enabled.  " 
     INDEX { ipSecRuleTimePeriodPrid } 
     UNIQUENESS { 
       TimePeriod, 
       MonthOfYearMask, 
       DayOfMonthMask, 
       DayOfWeekMask, 
       TimeOfDayMask, 
       LocalOrUtcTime 
       } 
     ::= { ipSecPolicyTimePeriod  1 } 

    ipSecRuleTimePeriodEntry OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX IpSecRuleTimePeriodEntry 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecRuleTimePeriodTable 1 } 

    IpSecRuleTimePeriodEntry ::= SEQUENCE { 
    ipSecRuleTimePeriodPrid 
                                 PolicyInstanceId, 
     ipSecRuleTimePeriodTimePeriod OCTET STRING, 
     ipSecRuleTimePeriodMonthOfYearMask OCTET STRING, 
     ipSecRuleTimePeriodDayOfMonthMask OCTET STRING, 
     ipSecRuleTimePeriodDayOfWeekMask OCTET STRING, 
     ipSecRuleTimePeriodTimeOfDayMask OCTET STRING, 
    ipSecRuleTimePeriodLocalOrUtcTime 
                                           INTEGER 
   } 

    
   ipSecRuleTimePeriodPrid OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyInstanceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer index to uniquely identify an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecRuleTimePeriodEntry  1 } 

    


Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 49] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecRuleTimePeriodTimePeriod OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX OCTET STRING 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An octet string that identifies an overall range of calendar 
   dates and times over which a policy rule is valid.  It reuses the 
   format for an explicit time period defined in RFC 2445 
   [ICALENDAR]: a string representing a starting date and time, in 
   which the character `T' indicates the beginning of the time 
   portion, followed by the character '/', followed by a similar 
   string representing an end date and time.  The first date 
   indicates the beginning of the range, while the second date 
   indicates the end.  Thus, the second date and time must be later 
   than the first.  Date/times are expressed as sub-strings of the 
   form yyyymmddThhmmss.  
    There are also two special cases: 
    -  If the first date/time is replaced with the string 
   THISANDPRIOR, then the property indicates that a policy rule is 
   valid [from now] until the date/time that appears after the '/'. 
    - If the second date/time is replaced with the string 
   THISANDFUTURE, then the property indicates that a policy rule 
   becomes valid on the date/time that appears before the '/', and 
   remains valid from that point on. 
   " 
     ::= { ipSecRuleTimePeriodEntry  2 } 

    



















Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 50] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecRuleTimePeriodMonthOfYearMask OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX OCTET STRING 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An octet string that specifies which months the policy is valid 
   for.  The octet string is structured as follows: 
    - a 4-octet length field, indicating the length of the entire 
   octet string; this field is always set to 0x00000006 for this 
   property; 
    - a 2-octet field consisting of 12 bits identifying the 12 months 
   of the year, beginning with January and ending with December, 
   followed by 4 bits that are always set to '0'.  For each month, 
   the value '1' indicates that the policy is valid for that month, 
   and the value '0' indicates that it is not valid. 
     If this property is omitted, then the policy rule is treated as 
   valid for all twelve months." 
     ::= { ipSecRuleTimePeriodEntry  3 } 

    ipSecRuleTimePeriodDayOfMonthMask OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX OCTET STRING 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An octet string that specifies which days of the month the 
   policy is valid for. The octet string is structured as follows: 
    -a 4-octet length field, indicating the length of the entire 
   octet string; this field is always set to 0x0000000C for this 
   property; 
    -an 8-octet field consisting of 31 bits identifying the days of 
   the month counting from the beginning, followed by 31 more bits 
   identifying the days of the month counting from the end, followed 
   by 2 bits that are always set to '0'.  For each day, the value 
   '1' indicates that the policy is valid for that day, and the 
   value '0' indicates that it is not valid. 
    For months with fewer than 31 days, the digits corresponding to 
   days that the months do not have (counting in both directions) 
   are ignored. 
   " 
     ::= { ipSecRuleTimePeriodEntry  4 } 

    




Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 51] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecRuleTimePeriodDayOfWeekMask OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX OCTET STRING 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An octet string that specifies which days of the week the policy 
   is valid for. The octet string is structured as follows: 
    - a 4-octet length field, indicating the length of the entire 
   octet string; this field is always set to 0x00000005 for this 
   property; 
    - a 1-octet field consisting of 7 bits identifying the 7 days of 
   the week, beginning with Sunday and ending with Saturday, 
   followed by 1 bit that is always set to '0'.  For each day of the 
   week, the value '1' indicates that the policy is valid for that 
   day, and the value '0' indicates that it is not valid. 
   " 
     ::= { ipSecRuleTimePeriodEntry  5 } 

    ipSecRuleTimePeriodTimeOfDayMask OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX OCTET STRING 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An octet string that specifies a range of times in a day the 
   policy is valid for. It is formatted as follows: 
   A time string beginning with the character 'T', followed by the 
   character '/', followed by a second time string.  The first time 
   indicates the beginning of the range, while the second time 
   indicates the end.  Times are expressed as sub-strings of the 
   form Thhmmss. 
    The second sub-string always identifies a later time than the 
   first sub-string.  To allow for ranges that span midnight, 
   however, the value of the second string may be smaller than the 
   value of the first sub-string.  Thus, T080000/T210000 identifies 
   the range from 0800 until 2100, while T210000/T080000 identifies 
   the range from 2100 until 0800 of the following day. 
   " 
     ::= { ipSecRuleTimePeriodEntry  6 } 

    








Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 52] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   ipSecRuleTimePeriodLocalOrUtcTime OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX INTEGER { 
       localTime(1), 
       utcTime(2) 
       } 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "This property indicates whether the times represented in this 
   table represent local times or UTC times.  There is no provision 
   for mixing of local times and UTC times: the value of this 
   property applies to all of the other time-related properties. 
   " 
     ::= { ipSecRuleTimePeriodEntry  7 } 

      -- 
   -- 
   -- The ipSecRuleTimePeriodGroupTable 
   -- 

      
   ipSecRuleTimePeriodGroupTable OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IpSecRuleTimePeriodGroupEntry 
     POLICY-ACCESS install 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies multiple time periods. The ipSecPolicyTimePeriodTable 
   is able to specify a single time period over multiple days (e.g., 
   8:00-10:00 am every Friday). This table allows one to specify 
   multiple time periods over multiple days (e.g., 8:00-10:00 am and 
   2:00-5:00 pm every Friday) by grouping them into one group." 
     INDEX { ipSecRuleTimePeriodGroupPrid } 
     UNIQUENESS { 
       RuleTimePeriodGroupId, 
       RuleTimePeriodId 
       } 
     ::= { ipSecPolicyTimePeriod  2 } 

    ipSecRuleTimePeriodGroupEntry OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX IpSecRuleTimePeriodGroupEntry 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "Specifies an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecRuleTimePeriodGroupTable 1 } 

    



Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 53] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   IpSecRuleTimePeriodGroupEntry ::= SEQUENCE { 
    ipSecRuleTimePeriodGroupPrid 
                                  PolicyInstanceId, 
    ipSecRuleTimePeriodGroupRuleTimePeriodGroupId 
                                                      Unsigned32, 
    ipSecRuleTimePeriodGroupRuleTimePeriodId 
                                                  PolicyReferenceId 
   } 

    
   ipSecRuleTimePeriodGroupPrid OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyInstanceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer index to uniquely identify an instance of this class" 
     ::= { ipSecRuleTimePeriodGroupEntry  1 } 

    ipSecRuleTimePeriodGroupRuleTimePeriodGroupId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX Unsigned32 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that uniquely identifies an ipSecRuleTimePeriod 
   group. " 
     ::= { ipSecRuleTimePeriodGroupEntry  2 } 

    ipSecRuleTimePeriodGroupRuleTimePeriodId OBJECT-TYPE 
     SYNTAX PolicyReferenceId 
     STATUS current 
     DESCRIPTION 
   "An integer that identifies an ipSecRuleTimePeriod, specified by 
   the ipSecRuleTimePeriodTable, that is included in this group." 
     ::= { ipSecRuleTimePeriodGroupEntry  3 } 

    END 

4. Security Consideration 

   Since COPS is used to carry the PIB defined in this document, the 
   security and protection of the information can be provided by 
   either COPS or a combination of COPS and IPSec.  


5. Intellectual Property 

   The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any 
   intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed to 
   pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described 
   in this document or the extent to which any license under such 


Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 54] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

   rights might or might not be available; neither does it represent 
   that it has made any effort to identify any such rights. 
   Information on the IETF's procedures with respect to rights in 
   standards-track and standards-related documentation can be found 
   in BCP-11. 

   Copies of claims of rights made available for publication and any 
   assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an 
   attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use 
   of such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this 
   specification can be obtained from the IETF Secretariat. 

   The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention 
   any copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other 
   proprietary rights which may cover technology that may be required 
   to practice this standard. Please address the information to the 
   IETF Executive Director. 


6. References 

[AH] S. Kent, R. Atkinson, "IP Authentication Header", RFC 2402, 
November 1998. 

[ARCH] S. Kent, R. Atkinson,"Security Architecture for the Internet 
Protocol", RFC 2401, November, 1998. 

[ICALENDAR] F. Dawson, D. Stenerson, "Internet Calendaring and 
Scheduling Core Object Specification (iCalendar)", RFC 2445, November 
1998.  

[COPS] J. Boyle, R. Cohen, D. Durham, S. Herzog, R. Rajan, A. Sastry, 
"The COPS (Common Open Policy Service) Protocol" RFC 2748, January 
2000.  

[COPS-PR] K. Chan, D. Durham, S. Gai, S. Herzog, K. McCloghrie, F. 
Reichmeyer, J. Seligson, A. Smith, R. Yavatkar, "COPS Usage for 
Policy Provisioning," draft-ietf-rap-cops-pr-02.txt, March 2000.  

[DOI] D. Piper, "The Internet IP Security Domain of Interpretation 
for ISAKMP", RFC 2407, November 1998.  

[ESP] S. Kent, R. Atkinson, "IP Encapsulating Security Payload 
(ESP)", RFC 2406, November 1998.  

[FR-PIB] M. Fine, K. McCloghrie, J. Seligson, K. Chan, S. Hahn, A. 
Smith, F. Reichmeyer "Framework Policy Information Base", Internet 
Draft , March 2000.  



Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 55] 



Internet Draft     IPSec Policy Information Base            July 2000 

[IKE] D. Harkins, D. Carrel, "The Internet Key Exchange (IKE)", RFC 
2409, November 1998. 

[IPCOMP] A. Shacham, R. Monsour, R. Pereira, M. Thomas, "IP Payload 
Compression Protocol (IPComp)", RFC 2393, August 1998. 

[IPSEC-IM] J. Jason,"IPSec Configuration Policy Model," draft-ietf-
ipsp-config-policy-model-00.txt, march 2000. 

[PCIM] B. Moore, E. Ellesson, J. Strassner, "Policy Core Information 
Model -- Version 1 Specification", draft-ietf-policy-core-info-model-
06.txt, May, 2000. 

[SPPI] K. McCloghrie, M. Fine, J. Seligson, K. Chan, S. Chan, A. 
Smith, F. Reichmeyer, "Structure of Policy Provisioning Information," 
draft-ietf-rap-sppi-00.txt, march 2000. 

7. Author's Addresses 

     Man Li  
     Nokia  
     5 Wayside Road,  
     Burlington, MA 01803  
     Phone: +1 781 993 3923  
     Email: man.m.li@nokia.com  
 
     David Arneson  
     Nokia  
     5 Wayside Road,  
     Burlington, MA 01803  
     Phone: +1 781 993 3925  
     Email: david.arneson@nokia.com 
      
     Avri Doria 
     Nortel Networks 
     600 Technology Park Drive 
     Billerica, MA 01821 
     Phone: +1 401 663 5024 
     Email: avri@nortelnetworks.com  
     
     Jamie Jason 
     Intel Corporation 
     MS JF3-206 
     2111 NE 25th Ave. 
     Hillsboro, OR 97124 
     Phone: +1 503 264 9531 
     Fax: +1 503 264 9428 
     E-Mail: jamie.jason@intel.com 

Li,Arneson,Doria,Jason          Expires January 2001         [Page 56] 

