






Internet Engineering Task Force                                 F. Baker
Diffserv Working Group                                     Cisco Systems
INTERNET-DRAFT                                                   K. Chan
Expires June 2001                                        Nortel Networks
draft-ietf-diffserv-mib-05.txt                                  A. Smith
                                                                <editor>
                                                           November 2000
                  Management Information Base for the
                  Differentiated Services Architecture




Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC 2026. Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups. Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.


Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time. It is inappropriate to use Internet Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."


The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt.  The list of Internet-Draft
Shadow Directories can be accessed at http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.


This document is a product of the IETF's Differentiated Services Working
Group. Comments should be addressed to WG's mailing list at
diffserv@ietf.org. The charter for Differentiated Services may be found
at http://www.ietf.org/html.charters/diffserv-charter.html

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2000). All Rights Reserved.
Distribution of this memo is unlimited.


Abstract

This memo describes a SMIv2 MIB for a device implementing the
Differentiated Services Architecture [DSARCH], described in detail by
the Differentiated Services Router Informal Management Model [MODEL].





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001            [Page 1]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


1.  The SNMP Management Framework

The SNMP Management Framework presently consists of five major
components:

    o   An overall architecture, described in RFC 2571 [1].

    o   Mechanisms for describing and naming objects and events for the
        purpose of management. The first version of this Structure of
        Management Information (SMI) is called SMIv1 and described in
        RFC 1155 [2], RFC 1212 [3] and RFC 1215 [4]. The second version,
        called SMIv2, is described in RFC 2578 [5], RFC 2579 [6] and RFC
        2580 [7].

    o   Message protocols for transferring management information. The
        first version of the SNMP message protocol is called SNMPv1 and
        described in RFC 1157 [8]. A second version of the SNMP message
        protocol, which is not an Internet standards track protocol, is
        called SNMPv2c and described in RFC 1901 [9] and RFC 1906 [10].
        The third version of the message protocol is called SNMPv3 and
        described in RFC 1906 [10], RFC 2572 [11] and RFC 2574 [12].

    o   Protocol operations for accessing management information. The
        first set of protocol operations and associated PDU formats is
        described in RFC 1157 [8]. A second set of protocol operations
        and associated PDU formats is described in RFC 1905 [13].

    o   A set of fundamental applications described in RFC 2573 [14] and
        the view-based access control mechanism described in RFC 2575
        [15].

A more detailed introduction to the current SNMP Management Framework
can be found in RFC 2570 [16].


Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB. Objects in the MIB are defined using
the mechanisms defined in the SMI.


This memo specifies a MIB module that is compliant to the SMIv2. A MIB
conforming to the SMIv1 can be produced through the appropriate
translations. The resulting translated MIB must be semantically
equivalent, except where objects or events are omitted because no
translation is possible (use of Counter64). Some machine-readable
information in SMIv2 will be converted into textual descriptions in
SMIv1 during the translation process. However, this loss of machine





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001            [Page 2]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


readable information is not considered to change the semantics of the
MIB.

Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001            [Page 3]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


2.  Introduction

2.1.  Relationship to the Diffserv Informal Management Model

This MIB is designed according to the Differentiated Services Informal
Management Model documented in [MODEL]. The model describes the way that
ingress and egress interfaces of an 'n'-port router are modelled. It
describes the configuration and management of a Diffserv interface in
terms of a Traffic Conditioning Block (TCB) which contains, by
definition, zero or more classifiers, meters, actions, algorithmic
droppers, queues and schedulers. These elements are arranged according
to the QoS policy being expressed, always in that order. Traffic may be
classified; classified traffic may be metered; each stream of traffic
identified by a combination of classifiers and meters may have some set
of actions performed on it; it may have dropping algorithms applied and
it may ultimately be stored into a queue before being scheduled out to
its next destination, either onto a link or to another TCB. When the
treatment for a given packet must have any of those elements repeated in
a way that breaks the permitted sequence {classifier, meter, action,
algorithmic dropper, queue, scheduler}, this must be modelled by
cascading multiple TCBs.

The MIB represents this cascade by following the "Next" attributes of
the various elements. They indicate what the next step in Diffserv
processing will be, whether it be a classifier, meter, action,
algorithmic dropper, queue, scheduler or a decision to now forward a
packet.

The MIB models the individual elements that make up the TCBs.  The
higher level concept of a TCB is not required in the parameterization or
in the linking together of the individual elements, hence it is not used
in the MIB itself and only mentioned in the text for relating the MIB
with the [MODEL].  The actual distinguishing of which TCB a specific
element is a part of is not needed for the instructmentation of a device
to support the functionalities of DiffServ, but it is useful for
conceptual reasons.  By not including TCB notion in its parameters, this
MIB allow any grouping of elements to construct TCBs, using rules
indicated by the [MODEL].  This will minimize changes to this MIB if
rules in [MODEL] changes.

The notion of a Data Path is used in this MIB to indicate the DiffServ
processing a packet may experience.  This Data Path is distinguished
based on the Interface and the Direction of the flow the packet is part
of.  A Data Path Table Entry indicates the first of possibly multiple
elements that will apply DiffServ treatment to the packet.

Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001            [Page 4]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


2.2.  Relationship to other MIBs and Policy Management

This MIB provides for direct reporting and manipulation of the most
detailed functional elements described by the Diffserv Informal
Management Model for management.  These elements are designed with their
parameterization tables separated from their data path linkage tables,
allowing reuse of each table as much as possible.  The data path linkage
in this MIB is coupled with interface thru the use of
diffServDataPathTable.  The concept of "interface" is as for the
InterfaceIndex/ifIndex of the IETF Interfaces MIB [IFMIB].

Other MIBs and data structure definitions for policy management
mechanisms other than SNMP/SMIv2 are likely to exist in the future for
the purposes of abstracting the model in other ways.

In particular, abstractions in the direction of less detailed
definitions of Diffserv functionality are likely e.g. some form of
"Per-Hop Behaviour"-based definition involving a template of detailed
object values which is applied to specific instances of objects in this
MIB semi-automatically.

Another possible direction of abstraction is one using a concept of
"roles" (often, but not always, applied to interfaces). In this case, it
may be possible to re-use the object definitions in this MIB, especially
the parameterization tables.  The Data Path table will help in the reuse
of the data path linkage tables by having the interface specific
information centralized, allowing easier mechanical replacement of
ifIndex by some sort of "roleIndex".  Work is ongoing in this area.

2.3.  MIB Overview

This MIB is structured based on the need to describe the sequential
DiffServ treatments being applied to a packet, and the parameterization
of these treatments.  These two requirements are kept separate thru out
the design of this MIB, and are full-filled using separate tables and
data definitions.

In this MIB, we model the ingress and egress portions of a DiffServ
network device identically, making the distinction between them an index
variable. Each interface then performs some or all of the following
high-level functions:

o    Classify each packet according to some set of rules

o    Determine whether the packet's data stream  is conforming or not
     conforming to its permitted rates

Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001            [Page 5]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


o    Perform a set of resulting actions, possibly including counting the
     traffic, application of an appropriate drop policy and marking of
     the traffic with a Differentiated Services Code Point (DSCP) as
     defined in [DSFIELD].

o    Enqueue the traffic for output in the appropriate queue, whose
     scheduler may shape the traffic or simply forward it with some
     minimum rate or maximum latency.

The MIB therefore contains the following elements:

Data Path Table
     A general extensible framework for describing the starting point of
     DiffServ datapaths within a single DiffServ device.  This table
     descibes interface and interface direction specific data paths.

Classifier and Filter Tables
     A general extensible framework and one example of a
     parameterization table - filter table (an IP Six-Tuple Multi-Field
     Classification Table).

Meter Tables
     A general extensible framework and one example of a
     parameterization table - TBMeter table, applicable for Simple Token
     Bucket Meter, Average Rate Meter, Single Rate Three Color Meter,
     Two Rate Three Color Meter, and Sliding Window Three Color Meter.

Action Tables
     A general extensible framework and examples of parameterization
     tables for Absolute Drop, Mark and Count actions.  The
     "multiplexer", "replicator" and "null" actions described in [MODEL]
     are accomplished implicitly by means of the RowPointer structures
     of the other elements.

Queue, Scheduler and Algorithmic Dropper Tables
     A general extensible framework for parameterizing queuing and
     scheduler systems.  The queue measurement dependent algorithmic
     droppers are also described here.

3.  Structure of this MIB

This MIB is structured with separate tables for purpose of DiffServ data
path description and DiffServ treatment parameterization of the DiffServ
device.  The data path description and/or the treatment parameterization
tables can each be reuse independently, allowing the flexibility to
maintain a common data construct for DiffServ device configuration and
provisioning, independent of the configuration/provisioning method used.





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001            [Page 6]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


The definitions in this MIB are intented to be reused by the DiffServ
PIB and SNMPCONF working group's DiffServ Policy MIB.  The treatment
parameters can also be reused by other IP based technologies.  For
example, IP packet filtering parameters most likely can be reused by
other IP based technologies.

3.1.  DiffServ Data Paths

This part of the MIB provide instrumentation for connecting the DiffServ
Functional Elements within a single DiffServ device.  Please refer to
the [MODEL] for discussions on the valid sequencing and grouping of
DiffServ Functional Elements.  Given some basic information, e.g.
ifIndex and interface direction, the first DiffServ Functional Element
is determined.  Subsequent DiffServ Functional Elements are provided by
the "Next" pointer attribute of each entry of data path tables.
Description of how this "Next" pointer is used in each table is provided
in their respective section.

The data path can be redefined to allow a different level of control
other than interface level control currently defined in this MIB.  There
is on-going work in this area, most notably the development of Policy
Information Base in DiffServ and RAP working groups, and DiffServ Policy
MIB in SNMPCONF working group.

3.1.1.  Data Path Table

Entries in the Data Path Table provide the DiffServ treatment starting
points for all packets of this DiffServ device. Each entry in this table
is indexed by ifIndex and the direction of the packet flow.  There
should be at most two entries for each interface, one for ingress and
one for egress.  Each entry provides the first DiffServ Functional
Element each packet at a specific interface traveling a specific
relative direction should experience.  Notice this table is interface
specific, with the use of ifIndex.  As indicated in section 2.2, with
some modification/extension of the Data Path Table, most of the tables
and their entries are reusable by other Policy Management mechanisms.
For indication of none existence of DiffServ Treatments, entries can be
created with zeroDotZero in the diffServDataPathStart attribute to
indicate this explicitly.  The none existence of DiffServ Treatment can
also be indicated implicitly by not having the entry at all. The
explicit/implicit selection is up to the implementation.  This means
allow normal IP device processing when zeroDotZero is used in the
diffServDataPathStart attribute, or when the entry does not exist.
Normal IP device processing will depend on the device, for example, this
can be forwarding the packet.

Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001            [Page 7]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


3.2.  Classifiers

The classifier, classifier element, and filter tables determine how
traffic is sorted out. They identify separable classes of traffic, by
reference to an appropriate filter, which may select anything from an
individual micro-flow to aggregates identified by DSCP.

The classification is used to send these separate streams to appropriate
Meter, Action, Queue, Scheduler and Algorithmic Dropper elements. For
example, to indicate a multi-stage meter, sub-classes of traffic may be
sent to different meter stages: e.g. in an implementation of the Assured
Forwarding (AF) PHB [AF-PHB], AF11 traffic might be sent to the first
meter, AF12 traffic might be sent to the second and AF13 traffic sent to
the second meter stage's out-of-profile action.

The concept of a classifier is the same as described in [MODEL].  The
structure of the classifier and classifier element tables, is the same
as the classifier described in [MODEL].  Within each classifier, it must
not be important in which order the tests are made. This is to
facilitate optimized implementations such as index trees. Order is
present only to resolve ambiguity, by use of "order" here and
"precedence" in [MODEL].  Filter with higher values of order are
compared first; the order of tests for entries of the same order is
unimportant.

A datapath may consist of more than one classifier.  There may be
overlap of filter specification between filters of different
classifiers.  The first classifier functional datapath element
encountered, as determined by the sequencing of diffserv functional
datapath elements, will be used first.

An important form of classifier is "everything else": the final stage of
the classifier i.e. the one with the lowest precedence, must be
"complete" since the result of an incomplete classifier is not
necessarily deterministic - see [MODEL] section 4.1.2.

The definition of the actual filter to be used by the classifier is
referenced via a RowPointer: this enables the use of any sort of filter
table that one might wish to design, standard or proprietary. The filter
table may be, but does not need to be, defined in this MIB module.

The classifiers specified here are at the interface level, they may be
derived from some more general policies e.g. something based on
interface roles, but such discussion is outside the scope of this
document. See e.g. [POLTERM] section 4 for a discussion of Roles.

Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001            [Page 8]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


3.2.1.  Classifier Table

Classifiers are organized by entries of the Classifier Table.  With each
entry corresponds to a single Classifier.  It is the entries in the
Classifier Table that get linked from the upstream diffserv functional
datapath element, i.e. an entry in diffServDataPathTable.  A data path
may consist of more than one Classifier, the order the classification
processes aplies to the traffic is the same as the order the classifier
table entries are linked in the data path.

3.2.2.  Classifier Element Table

While the Classifier Table entries handles the input side of the
Classifier, the Classifier Element Table enumerates each branch of the
fan-out of a Classifier, associating each fan-out branch with a Filter
for discriminating the traffic for that branch. Each Classifier Element
table entry is part of a Classifier, indicated by
diffServClfrElementClfrId.

3.2.3.  Filter Table - IP Six-Tuple Classifier Table

This MIB includes one Filter Table, a definition for an IP Six-Tuple
Classifier, used for IP traffic classification. Entries in this filter
table are referenced from the RowPointer diffServClfrElementSpecific
attributes of classifier element table entries.


A Behavior Aggregate (BA) Classifier, acting only on DSCPs, is a simple
form of the IP Six-Tuple Classifier. It is represented by having the
diffServSixTupleClfrDscp attribute set to the desired DSCP and all other
classification attributes set to match-all, their default settings. The
alternative approach of providing a specific definition in this MIB for
a BA Classifier was discussed and rejected.


Each entry in the IP Six-Tuple Classifier Table defines a single filter.
The textual convention of InetAddress [INETADDR] is used for both IPv4
and IPv6 addressing.  The use of IP Six-Tuple Classifiers is discussed
in [DSARCH] and abstract examples of how they might be configured are
provided in [MODEL].


3.3.  Meters

A meter, according to [MODEL] section 5, measures the rate at which
packets making up a stream of traffic pass it, compares this rate to
some set of thresholds and produces some number (two or more) of





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001            [Page 9]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


potential results. A given packet is said to "conform" to the meter if,
at the time that the packet is being looked at, the stream appears to be
within the meter's profile. MIB syntax makes it easiest to define this
as a sequence of one or more cascaded pass/fail tests, modeled here as
if-then-else constructs. It is important to understand that this way of
modelling does not imply anything about the implementation being
"sequential": multi-rate/multi-profile meters e.g. those designed to
support [SRTCM] or [TRTCM], can still be modelled this way even if they,
of necessity, share information between the stages: the stages are
introduced merely as a notational convenience in order to simplify the
MIB structure.

3.3.1.  Meter Table

The generic meter table is used as a base for all more specific forms of
meter.  The definition of parameters specific to the type of meter used
is referenced via a pointer to a table containing those specifics.  This
enables the use of any sort of specific meter table that one might wish
to design, standard or proprietary. The specific meter table may be, but
does not need to be, defined in this MIB module.

3.3.2.  Token-Bucket Meter Table

This is included as an example of a common type of meter.  Entries in
this table are referenced from the RowPointer diffServMeterSpecific
attributes of meter table entries.  The parameters are represented by a
rate diffServTBMeterRate, a burst size diffServTBMeterBurstSize, and an
interval diffServTBMeterInterval.  How these parameters are used depends
on the type of meter being parameterized, this is provided by the
diffServTBMeterType attribute.  Additional meter parameterization tables
can be defined in this or other MIB when necessary.

3.4.  Actions

Actions include "no action", "mark the traffic with a DSCP", "drop the
traffic" or "count it". Other tasks such as "shape the traffic" or "drop
based on some algorithm" are handled elsewhere as queueing mechanisms,
rather than actions, consistent with [MODEL].  The "multiplexer",
"replicator" and "null" actions described in [MODEL] are accomplished
implicitly by means of the RowPointer structures of the other elements.

This MIB uses the Action Table diffServActionTable to organize one
Action's relationship with the element(s) before and after it. It allows
Actions to be cascaded to enable multiple Actions be applied to a single
traffic stream by using each entry's diffServActionNext attribute.  The
diffServActionNext attribute of the last action entry in the chain
points to the next element in the TCB, if any, e.g.  a Queueing element.





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 10]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


It may also point at a next TCB.

The parameters needed for each Action element will depend on the type of
Action to be taken. Hence there are specific Action Tables for all the
different Action types.  This flexibility allows additional Actions be
specified in future revisions of this MIB, or in other MIBs and also
allows for the use of proprietary Actions without impact on those
defined here.

3.4.1.  DSCP Mark Action Table

This Action is applied to traffic in order to mark it with a Diffserv
Codepoint (DSCP) value, specified in the diffServDscpMarkActTable. Other
marking actions might be specified elsewhere - these are outside the
scope of this MIB.

3.4.2.  Count Action Table

Count Actions are used to count the traffic passing along a particular
path through the model. If specified, they are likely to be placed
first, before other types of Action. For example, when both a Count and
an Absolute Dropper Action are specified, the Count Action needs to
count the traffic stream before any traffic gets dropped.  Note that
there are counters contained directly in Algorithmic Dropper elements to
indicate the amount of traffic dropped by those elements.

Counters are arranged in a single table but with separate conformance
statements for low-speed and high-speed interfaces, consistent with
[IFMIB].

3.4.3.  Absolute Drop Action

This action just silently discards all traffic presented to it, without
counting it. This action has no additional parameters and so is
represented only within diffServActionType without its specific table.

3.5.  Queueing Elements

These include Algorithmic Droppers, Queues and Schedulers which are all
inter-related in their use of queueing techniques.

3.5.1.  Algorithmic Dropper Table

Algorithmic Droppers have a close relationship with queueing: they are
represented in this MIB by entries in an Algorithmic Dropper Table.
Entries contain a diffServAlgDropNext attribute which indicates to which
queue they sink their traffic.





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 11]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


An Algorithmic Dropper is assumed to operate indiscriminately on all
packets that are presented at its input. If it is necessary to perform
additional classification on the stream then a separate TCB must be
introduced at this point: Classifier elements here can then distinguish
the different types of traffic on which dropping is to act and the
treatment for each type is described by a separate diffServAlgDropEntry.

Algorithmic Droppers may also contain a pointer to specific detail of
the drop algorithm, diffServAlgDropSpecific. This MIB defines the detail
for three drop algorithms: Tail Drop, Head Drop and Random Drop; other
algorithms are outside the scope of this MIB module but the general
framework is intended to allow for their inclusion via other MIB
modules.

One generally-applicable parameter of a dropper is the specification of
a queue-depth threshold at which some drop action is to start. This is
represented in this MIB, as a base attribute, diffServAlgDropQThreshold,
of the Algorithmic Dropper entry.  The queue for which depth is to be
compared and the depth threshold to compare against, is specified with
diffServAlgDropQMeasure.

o    A Tail Dropper requires the specification of a maximum queue depth
     threshold: when the queue pointed at by diffServAlgDropQMeasure
     reaches that depth threshold, diffServAlgDropQThresh, any new
     traffic arriving at the dropper is discarded. This algorithm uses
     only parameters that are part of the diffServAlgDropEntry.

o    A Head Dropper requires the specification of a maximum queue depth
     threshold: when the queue pointed at by diffServAlgDropQMeasure
     reaches that depth threshold, diffServAlgDropQThresh, traffic
     currently at the head of the queue is discarded. This algorithm
     uses only parameters that are part of the diffServAlgDropEntry.

o    Random Droppers are recommended as a way to control congestion, in
     [QUEUEMGMT] and called for in the [AF-PHB]. Various implementations
     exist, which agree on marking or dropping just enough traffic to
     communicate with TCP-like protocols about congestion avoidance, but
     differ markedly on their specific parameters. This MIB attempts to
     offer a minimal set of controls for any random dropper, but expects
     that vendors will augment the table with additional controls and
     status in accordance with their implementation. This algorithm
     requires additional parameters on top of those in
     diffServAlgDropEntry: these are discussed below.


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 12]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


3.5.2.  Random Dropper Table

One example of a random dropper is a RED-like dropper. An example of the
representation chosen in this MIB for this element is shown in Figure 1.

Random droppers often have their drop probability function described as
a plot of drop probability (P) against averaged queue length (Q).
(Qmin,Pmin) then defines the start of the characteristic plot.  Normally
Pmin=0, meaning with average queue length below Qmin, there will be no
drops.  (Qmax,Pmax) defines a "knee" on the plot, after which point the
drop probability become more progressive (greater slope).  (Qclip,1)
defines the queue length at which all packets will be dropped. Notice
this is different from Tail Drop because this uses an averaged queue
length.  although it is possible for Qclip = Qmax. In the MIB module,
diffServRandomDropMinThreshBytes and diffServRandomDropMinThreshPkts
represent Qmin.  diffServRandomDropMaxThreshBytes and
diffServRandomDropMaxThreshPkts represent Qmax.
diffServRandomDropInvProbMax represents Pmax. This MIB does not
represent Pmin (assumed to be zero unless otherwise represented) or
Qclip (assumed to be Qmax unless otherwise represented).

Each random dropper specification is associated with a queue. This
allows multiple drop processes (of same or different types) be
associated with the same queue, as different PHB implementations may


      +-------------+      +-----------+
  --->| Next   --------+-->| Next    ---------> to Scheduler
      | Thresh=100k |  |   | Min=none  |
      | Measure -------+   | Max=none  |
      | Type=random |      | Pri=10    |
      | Specific ------+   | Type=fifo |
      +-------------+  |   +-----------+
        AlgDrop.3      |  Queue.4
                       |
                       |   +--------------+
                       +-->| Minthresh=10k|
                           | Maxthresh=80k|
                           | Weight=1/16  |
                           | ProbMax= 0.5 |
                           +--------------+
                            RandomDrop.3


  Figure 1: Example Use of the RandomDropTable for Random Droppers







Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 13]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


require.  This also allows for sequences of multiple droppers if
necessary.

The calculation of a smoothed queue length may also have an important
bearing on the behaviour of the dropper: parameters may include the
sampling rate and the weight of each sample. The performance may be very
sensitive to the values of these parameters and a wide range of possible
values may be required due to a wide range of link speeds. Most
algorithms include a sample weight, represented here by
diffServRandomDropInvWeight.  The availability of
diffServRandomDropSamplingRate as readable is important, the information
provided by Sampling Rate is essential to the configuration of
diffServRandomDropInvWeight.  Having Sampling Rate be configurable is
also helpful, as line speed increases, the ability to have queue
sampling be less frequent than packet arrival is needed.  Note however
that there is ongoing research on this topic, see e.g. [ACTQMGMT] and
[AQMROUTER].

Additional parameters may be added in an enterprise MIB module, e.g. by
using AUGMENTS on this table, to handle aspects of random drop
algorithms that are not standardised here.

NOTE: Deterministic Droppers can be viewed as a special case of Random
Droppers with the drop probability restricted to 0 and 1. Hence
Deterministic Droppers might be described by a Random Dropper with Pmin
= 0, Pmax = 1, Qmin = Qmax = Qclip, the averaged queue length at which
dropping occurs.

3.5.3.  Queues and Schedulers

The Queue Table models simple FIFO queues, as described in [MODEL]
section 7.1.1.  The Scheduler Table allows flexibility in constructing
both simple and somewhat more complex queueing hierarchies from those
queues.  Of course, since TCBs can be cascaded multiple times on an
interface, even more complex hierarchies can be constructed that way
also.

Queue Table entries are pointed at by the "next" attributes of the
upstream elements e.g. diffServMeterSucceedNext.  Note that multiple
upstream elements may direct their traffic to the same Queue Table
entry. For example, the Assured Forwarding PHB suggests that all traffic
marked AF11, AF12 or AF13 be placed in the same queue, after metering,
without reordering. This would be represented by having the
diffServMeterSucceedNext of each upstream meter point at the same entry
in the Queue Table.

Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 14]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


Notice Queue Table and Scheduler Table entries are for data path
description, they both uses Scheduler Parameterization Table entries for
diffserv treatment parameterization.

Queue Table entries specify the scheduler it wants service from by use
of its Next pointer.

Each Scheduler Table entry represents the algorithm in use for servicing
the one or more queues that feed it. The [MODEL] section 7.1.2 describes
a scheduler with multiple inputs: this is represented in the MIB by
having the scheduling parameters be associated with each input.  In this
way, sets of Queues can be grouped together as inputs to the same
Scheduler.  This table serves to represent the example scheduler
described in the [MODEL]: other more complex representations might be
created outside of this MIB.

Scheduler Parameter Table entries are used to parameterized each input
that feeds into a scheduler.  The inputs can be a mixture of Queue Table
and Scheduler Table entries.  Scheduler Parameter Table entries can be
used/reused by one or more Queue and/or Scheduler Table entries.

For representing a Strict Priority scheduler, each scheduler input is
assigned a priority with respect to all the other inputs feeding the
same scheduler, with default values for the other parameters.  A
higher-priority input will be serviced first over a lower-priority
input, assuming that all guarantees have already been met.

For Weighted Queueing algorithms e.g. WFQ, WRR, the "weight" of a given
scheduler input is represented with a Minimum Service Rate leaky-bucket
profile which provides guaranteed bandwidth to that input, if required.
This is represented, as were token-bucket meters, by a rate
diffServSchdParamMinRateAbs. The rate may, alternatively, be represented
by a relative value, as a fraction of the interface's current line rate,
diffServSchdParamMinRateRel to assist in cases where line rates are
variable or where a higher-level policy might be expressed in terms of
fractions of network resources. The two rate parameters are inter-
related and changes in one may be reflected in the other.

An input may also be capable of acting as a non-work-conserving [MODEL]
traffic shaper: this is done by defining a Maximum Service Rate leaky-
bucket profile in order to limit the scheduler bandwidth available to
that input. This is represented, similarly to the minimum rate, by a
rate diffServSchdParamMaxRateAbs. The rate may, alternatively, be
represented by a relative value, as a fraction of the interface's
current line rate, diffServSchdParamMaxRateRel.

Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 15]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


Notice hierarchical schedulers can be parameterized using this MIB by
having Scheduler Table entries feeds into Scheduler Table entry.

3.5.4.  Example of Algorithmic Droppers, Queues and Schedulers

As an example, the hypothetical queue/scheduler configuration shown in
[MODEL] section 8.1 is shown in Table 1.


  QId MinRate           MaxRate           Priority   Scheduler
  --- ----------------  ----------------  --------   ---------
  1   100kbps/20kbyte   none/none           20       Scheduler.1
  2   none/none         100kbps/100kbyte    40       Scheduler.1
  3   200kbps/20kbyte   none/none           20       Scheduler.1
  4   none/none         none/none           10       Scheduler.1


  SchedId   Type
  -------   ------------------
  1         weightedRoundRobin


      Table 1: Example Queue and Scheduler Parameters


Queues 1 and 3 are serviced for long enough to give them their promised
bandwidths and burst sizes, if they need them. Queue 2 is then serviced
up to its maximum limit profile. Only then does Queue 4 get an
opportunity to send its traffic.  As an example of the use of the MIB
structures, Figure 2 shows how the example would be represented.








Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 16]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000



                          +-----------+
  ----------------------->| Next    -----+
                          | Min=Profl4|  |
                          | Max=none  |  |
                          | Pri=20    |  |
                          | Type=fifo |  |
                          +-----------+  |
                         Queue.1         |
                                         |
      +-----------+       +-----------+  |
  --->| Next    -----+--->| Next   ------+
      | Thresh=1k |  |    | Min=none  |  |
      | Measure -----+    | Max=Profl5|  |
      | Type=Tail |       | Pri=40    |  |
      | Spec=none |       | Type=fifo |  |    +----------+
      +-----------+       +-----------+  +--->| Next   -----> 0.0
        Dropper.1        Queue.2         |    | Algrm=wrr|  or next TCB
                                         |    +----------+
      +-----------+       +-----------+  |   Scheduler.1
  --->| Next    -----+--->| Next    -----+
      | Thresh=2k |  |    | Min=Profl3|  |
      | Measure -----+    | Max=none  |  |
      | Type=Tail |       | Pri=20    |  |
      | Spec=none |       | Type=fifo |  |
      +-----------+       +-----------+  |
        Dropper.2        Queue.3         |
                                         |
      +-----------+       +-----------+  |
  --->| Next   ------+--->| Next    -----+
      | Thresh=4k |  |    | Min=none  |
      | Measure -----+    | Max=none  |
      | Type=Tail |       | Pri=10    |
      | Spec=none |       | Type=fifo |
      +-----------+       +-----------+
        Dropper.3        Queue.4


      Figure 2: Example of the use of Queueing elements



4.  MIB Usage Example

This section provides some examples on how the different table entries
of this MIB may be used to parameterize a DiffServ Device.  For the
figures, all the MIB table entry and attribute names assumes to have
"diffServ" as their first common initial part of name, with the table
entry name assumed to be their second common initial part of name.







Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 17]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000



+---------------------+
|DataPath             |
| ifIndex=1           |
| IfDirection=Ingress |    +------+
| Start --------------+--->|Clfr  |
+---------------------+    | Id=1 |
                           +------+

  +------------+      +--------------+      +-----------+
  |ClfrElement |  +-->|Meter         |  +-->|Action     |
  | Id=101     |  |   | Id=101       |  |   | Id=101    |
  | ClfrId=1   |  |   | SucceedNext -+--+   | Next -----+---->...
  | Order=NA   |  |   | FailNext ----+->... | Specific -+-+
  | Next ------+--+   | Specific -+  |      | Type=Spcf | |
  | Specific --+-+    +-----------+--+      +-----------+ |
  +------------+ |                |               +-------+
                 |   +-------+    |   +--------+  |   +-----------+
                 +-->|Filter1|    +-->|TBMeter1|  +-->|CounterAct1|
                     +-------+        +--------+      +-----------+

  +------------+      +--------------+      +-----------+
  |ClfrElement |  +-->|Meter         |  +-->|Action     |
  | Id=102     |  |   | Id=102       |  |   | Id=102    |
  | ClfrId=1   |  |   | SucceedNext -+--+   | Next -----+---->...
  | Order=NA   |  |   | FailNext ----+->... | Specific -+-+
  | Next ------+--+   | Specific -+  |      | Type=Spcf | |
  | Specific --+-+    +-----------+--+      +-----------+ |
  +------------+ |                |               +-------+
                 |   +-------+    |   +--------+  |   +-----------+
                 +-->|Filter2|    +-->|TBMeter2|  +-->|CounterAct2|
                     +-------+        +--------+      +-----------+

  +------------+      +--------------+      +-----------+
  |ClfrElement |  +-->|Meter         |  +-->|Action     |
  | Id=103     |  |   | Id=103       |  |   | Id=103    |
  | ClfrId=1   |  |   | SucceedNext -+--+   | Next -----+---->...
  | Order=NA   |  |   | FailNext ----+->... | Specific -+-+
  | Next ------+--+   | Specific -+  |      | Type=Spcf | |
  | Specific --+-+    +-----------+--+      +-----------+ |
  +------------+ |                |               +-------+
                 |   +-------+    |   +--------+  |   +-----------+
                 +-->|Filter3|    +-->|TBMeter3|  +-->|CounterAct3|
                     +-------+        +--------+      +-----------+

      Figure 3: Data Path Example Part 1


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 18]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


     +-------------+      +------------------+     +----------------------+
---->|Q            |   +->|Scheduler         |  +->|Scheduler             |
     | Id=EF       |   |  | Id=DiffServ      |  |  | Id=Shaping           |
     | Next -------+---+  | Next ------------+--+  | Next=zeroDotZero     |
     | SchdParam -+|   |  | Method=priorityq |     | Method=priorityq     |
     +------------++   |  | SchdParam -+     |     | SchdParam=zeroDotZero|
                  |    |  +------------+-----+     +----------------------+
     +------------+    |               |
     |                 |  +------------+
     |  +-----------+  |  |
     +->|SchdParamEF|  |  |  +----------------+
        +-----------+  |  +->|SchdParamShaping|
                       |     +----------------+
                       |
                       |
                       +-----------------------------------------+
                                                                 |
                                                                 |
    +----------------+       +-------------+                     |
--->|AlgDrop         |    +->|Q            |                     |
    | Id=AF11        |    |  | Id=AF1X     |    +-------------+  |
    | Type=randomDrop|    |  | Next -------+--->|Scheduler    |  |
    | Next ----------+-+--+  | SchdParam -+|    | Id=AF       |  |
    | QMeasure ------+-+  |  +------------++    | Next -------+--+
    | QThreshold     |    |               |     | Method=wfq  |
    | Specific -+    |    |  +------------+     | SchdParam -+|
    +-----------+----+    |  |                  +------------++
                |         |  |  +-------------+              |
    +-----------+         |  +->|SchdParamAF1X| +------------+
    |  +--------------+   |     +-------------+ |
    +->|RandomDropAF11|   |                     |  +-----------+
       +--------------+   |                     +->|SchdParamAF|
                          |                        +-----------+
    +----------------+    |
--->|AlgDrop         |    |
    | Id=AF12        |    |
    | Type=randomDrop|    |
    | Next ----------+-+--+
    | QMeasure ------+-+
    | QThreshold     |
    | Specific -+    |
    +-----------+----+
                |
    +-----------+
    |  +--------------+
    +->|RandomDropAF12|
       +--------------+

      Figure 4: Data Path Example Part 2



Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 19]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000

4.1.  Data Path and Classifier Example Discussion

The example in Figure 4 shows a single DataPathTable entry feeding into
a single Classifier entry, with three ClfrElement and Filter Table entry
pairs belonging to this Classifier 1.  Notice the three Filters used
here must completely classify all the traffic presented to this data
path.

Another level of classification can be defined that follows the Action
function datapath elements in Figure 3.  This second level of
classifiers and their subsequent function datapath elements would be
considered as in another TCB.

This multi-level classification allow the construction of traffic
seperations like:
  if (dept1)
  {
    if (appl1) then take dept1-appl1-action.
    if (appl2) then take dept1-appl2-action.
    if (appl3) then take dept1-appl3-action.
  }
  if (dept2)
  {
    if (appl1) then take dept2-appl1-action.
    if (appl2) then take dept2-appl2-action.
    if (appl3) then take dept2-appl3-action.
  }
  if (dept3)
  {
    if (appl1) then take dept3-appl1-action.
    if (appl2) then take dept3-appl2-action.
    if (appl3) then take dept3-appl3-action.
  }

The filters for appl1, appl2, appl3 may be reused for the above setup.


4.2.  Meter and Action Example Discussion

A simple Meter that can be parameterized by a single TBMeter entry is
shown here.  For Metering types that require mutliple TBMeter entries
for parameterization, a second level Meter and TBMeter table entries may
be used.  For example, for trTCM, with the first level TBMeter entry
used for Peak Information Token Bucket, the first level SucceedNext
points to the second level Meter entry, with second level TBMeter entry
used for Committed Information Token Bucket.

Notice the CountAct Action is shown in Figure 3.  This is purposely done
to indicate all datapaths should have at least one CountAct Action.
Other actions can be pointed to by the Next pointer of the CountAct





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 20]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


action, like DSCPMarkAct action.


4.3.  Queue and Scheduler Example Discussion

Example in Figure 4 shows three classified input traffic streams, EF,
AF11, and AF12, feeding into their respective queue and algorithmic
droppers.  After their respective dropping process, the AF traffic
streams feed into the same queue, QAF1X.

A Scheduler, AF, is shown in Figure 4, as the sink for AF1X queue
traffic, servicing AF1X queue with scheduling parameters indicated by
SchdParamAF1X.  This scheduler is used to service traffic from AF1X,
AF2X, AF3X queues using weighted fair queueing method.  The AF2X and
AF3X queues are not shown in Figure 4, they can be very much like AF1X
queue setup.

Another traffic stream, EF, is handled by the EF queue.  Scheduler
DiffServ services output of EF queue using SchdParamEF, and output of AF
scheduler using SchdParamAF, with Weighted Fair Queueing method.

Notice all the diffserv traffic may go out on a link with traffic
shaping.  The traffic shaping can be parameterize using the Shaping
Scheduler in Figure 4.  For shaping, the diffServSchdParamMaxRate
attributes should be used.  The output of the Shaping Scheduler is
indicated using its Next pointer with value of zeroDotZero, the output
port.


5.  Conventions used in this MIB

5.1.  The use of RowPointer

RowPointer is a textual convention used to identify a conceptual row in
an SNMP Table by pointing to one of its objects. In this MIB, it is used
in two ways: to indicate indirection and to indicate succession.

When used for indirection as in the diffServClassifierTable, the idea is
to allow other MIBs, including proprietary ones, to define new and
arcane classifiers - MAC headers, IPv4 and IPv6 headers, BGP Communities
and all sorts of other things - whilst still utilising the structures of
this MIB. This is a form of class inheritance (in "object oriented"
language): it allows base object definitions ("classes") to be extended
in proprietary or standard ways, in the future, by other documents.

When used for succession, it answers the question "what happens next?".
Rather than presume that the next table must be as specified in the





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 21]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


conceptual model [MODEL] and providing its index, the RowPointer takes
you to the MIB row representing that thing. In the diffServMeterTable,
for example, the diffServMeterFailNext RowPointer might take you to
another meter, while the diffServMeterSucceedNext RowPointer would take
you to an action.

     NOTE -- the RowPointer construct is used to build the TCBs
     described in [MODEL]: this MIB does not model TCBs directly - it
     operates at a lower level of abstraction using only individual
     elements, connected in succession by RowPointers. Therefore, the
     concept of TCBs enclosing individual functional datapath elements
     is not applicable to this MIB, although such a concept may be
     employed by management tools that use this MIB.

It is possible that a path through a device following a set of
RowPointers is indeterminate i.e. it ends in a dangling RowPointer (or
potentially does in the case of a Meter element) should be treated by
the agent as if it were operationally deactivated. For example, if an
Action element has a dangling diffServActionNext RowPointer that does
not point to an existent table entry (and is not zeroDotZero), then none
of the subsequent elements in that particular chain should have any
effect on the traffic proceeding down this chain and the Classification
or Meter element which lead to this Action element is not considered to
be active.  Other parts of the device configuration remain in effect, of
course, but this rule simply removes all ambiguity from the operational
system.

5.2.  Conceptual row creation and deletion

A number of conceptual tables defined in this MIB use as an index an
arbitrary integer value, unique across the scope of the agent. In order
to help with multi-manager row-creation problems, a mechanism must be
provided to allow a manager to obtain unique values for such an index
and to ensure that, when used, the manager knows whether it got what it
wanted or not.

Typically, such a table has an associated NextFree variable e.g.
diffServClassifierNextFree which provides a suitable value for the index
of the next row to be created e.g. diffServClassifierId. A special
value, 0, is used to indicate that no more entries can be created by the
agent. The table also has a columnar Status attribute with RowStatus
syntax [6].

If a manager attempts to create a conceptual row in the table (by a SET
operation that contains a varbind setting the Status to a value of
either createAndGo or createAndWait) and if the agent has sufficient
resources and has no other conceptual row with the same indices, the





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 22]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


agent will create the row and return success. If the agent has
insufficient resources or such a row is already existent then it returns
an error. A manager must be prepared to try again in such circumstances,
probably by re-reading the NextFree to obtain a new index value in case
a second manager had got in between the first manager's read of the
NextFree value and the first manager's row-creation attempt. The use of
RowStatus is covered in more detail in [6].



6.  Editorial information

<this section will be removed before publication>

6.1.  Open Issues resolved in previous drafts

(0)  Terminology is more in line with [MODEL], [POLTERM] and [DSTERM].
     Discarder -> "Algorithmic Dropper", "Monitor" -> "Counter"
     "Classifier element" -> "Filter"

(1)  Cascaded token-buckets is not equivalent to multi-rate token-
     bucket: do we need to fix this by allowing a multi-rate TB in the
     MIB? Or, by defining cascaded buckets to mean "multi-rate". (assume
     the latter - see text in 2.3)

(2)  Markers: model only describes DSCP-markers: do we need to be able
     to extend this to other sorts (e.g. 802.1p), even if we do not
     represent them in this MIB today? (yes). No MIB changes, just
     words.

(3)  Counters: should specific blocks include their own or is a "counter
     action", as described in the Model, sufficient to count all paths
     through a device? (as appropriate). Per-queue counters are
     derivable from "action" ones.  Per-classifier counters: may feed
     through from clasifiers to distinct counter actions.

(4)  Queue Sets: are these generally applicable? (no). The example in
     section 2.5.1 is hard to follow: we should describe this example in
     [MODEL] and then show how it maps to MIB in the MIB draft. - DONE

(5)  Do we need scheduling units of "packets"? (NO) Should we use "kbps"
     or just "bps" for rates? DONE - all rates are in kbps.

(6)  Are "absolute" rates sufficient or should we include "relative to
     line speed" ones as well? (yes) - DONE - explained that these are
     interrelated.


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 23]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


(7)  Scheduler weights vs. rates vs. priorities: this is confusing -
     suggest we stick to rates and priorities (see Model draft 7.1.2) -
     DONE.

(8)  Queue Measure table:

o    This allows for RIO - multiple averaging functions for the same
     queue: is this needed? OUT OF SCOPE.

o    mixes config with status objects - split these? N/A.

o    do we need floating-point representation for "weight"? N/A.

o    do we need MIB visibility for average queue depth? N/A.

o    do we need MIB-configurable averaging functions (sample
     weight/interval)?  (maybe just "sample weight") - NO: averaging
     functions will be left out although framework allows for their
     inclusion separately.

(9)  Counter compliance: paste text from IF-MIB re line-speeds. Do you
     still have to do the low-speed counters for fast interfaces? YES.
     DONE.

(10) Meters: are these mandatory for compliance? NO

(11) Discussion material: move most of this to Model draft e.g. most of
     3.1, 3.3, "Dropper/discarder" part of 3.4, nearly all of 3.5. Just
     leave the "how does the MIB map from the Model" parts in the MIB
     draft, no general discussion. DONE.

(12) Counters: merged in 32-bit and 64-bit counters - conformance
     statements sort out which ones must be implemented. This is
     consistent with [IFMIB]. DONE.

(13) Droppers: we used to have a common "dropper" table that represented
     all of: dropAlways, randomDrop, tailDrop with just some parameters
     valid for the simpler ones. A simpler representation is to define
     specific dropper tables for each type (e.g. a single OID to point
     at for dropAlways since it is always the last action in a chain)
     but this would mean a larger number of (simpler) MIB objects.
     CHANGES: dropAlways is still an Action but the others are moved to
     a diffServAlgDropTable. This table can handle tail/head/random drop
     - others by extension.

(14) Should TBMeterTable just AUGMENT the MeterTable, should it use same
     indices or are separate structures linked by RowPointers





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 24]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


     preferable? (same indices without RowPointer).

(15) Do we need to model multiple queues feeding back into a single
     dropper algorithm? (yes).  If so, the current single-queue pointer
     and threshold will not be adequate - should we leave them in? They
     will be useful for many, but not all, dropper algorithms. (yes)

(17) We have concepts of "inbound" and "outbound" directions: but if we
     have a series of multiple TCBs on a given interface for the same
     direction (allowed by the model) then we do not have a way to
     indicate "this is the 1st one". Moreover, it is a somewhat
     convoluted process to then find the 2nd, 3rd etc. ones - you would
     have to follow the RowPointers to get there: should we explicitly
     have an index to enable/help these lookup operations? Note: this is
     not the same issue as needing a "precedence" for each filter entry
     of a classifier (yes - added another index to classifiers to
     represent what TCB they operate at for a given
     interface/direction).

6.2.  Open Issues resolved in this draft

(13) Droppers: slight change to previous resolution. MIB can now handle
     tail/head/random drop using diffServAlgDropTable and
     diffServRandomDropTable.

(18) Should manager be allowed to create Queue elements or should agent
     be in control of this? (the former)

(19) Should manager be allowed to create Scheduler elements or should
     agent be in control of this? (the former)

(20) Related to (17) above, do we also need a "TCB index" for elements
     other than classifiers? (no)

(21) Do we need diffServAlgDropType of both "headDrop" and "tailDrop" or
     should we just represent the tail dropper by placing a dropper
     after the queue instead of before the queue, as linked by the
     diffServQNext and diffServAlgDropNext RowPointers? (the former -
     dropper is always in front of the queue in this model).

(22) Do we need to support RED algorithms for algorithm parameter
     configuration and monitoring? If so, what variables are needed?
     (Added diffServRandomDropTable).

(24) diffServAlgDropQThreshold needs UNITS (Bytes).

Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 25]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


(25) Dangling RowPointers: should we mandate that these are never
     permitted? Or just define the behaviour if they do dangle? (We
     define it such that elements that have dangling pointers, as well
     as upstream elements that point to them, are considered "not
     activated")

(26) Discontinuity times for MIB counters - is
     ifCounterDiscontinuityTime adequate? (no: added
     diffServCountActDiscontTime).

(27) How do we handle dropper algorithms that require additional
     classification information in order to do their job? If a
     Classifier is needed then create a new TCB for it at the point just
     before the dropper: use ordinary Classifier elements in this TCB.

(28) Indexing of table entries and uniqueness hints: is TestAndIncr the
     correct tool to use? (no: RowStatus is the right tool for ensuring
     uniqueness; use a NextFree variable as a hint).

(32) Miscellaneous clarifications - thanks Bob.

6.3.  Still Open Issues

(16) Should the creation of counter actions be under the control of
     manager or agent: should a diffServActionEntry and
     diffServCountActEntry appear by magic (does the agent know what
     counters it can and cannot maintain on a given interface)? (no) If
     no, should diffServCountActEntry appear magically when a
     diffServAction element is created which points at the
     diffServCountActTable (then would be no need for
     diffServCountActStatus)? (no)

(23) Do daughter entries of derived table entries need to exist
     independently of the parent?  Examples are
     diffServMeterEntry/diffServTBMeterEntry,
     diffServActionEntry/diffServCountActEntry and
     diffServAlgDropEntry/diffServRandomDropEntry (assume they must be
     independent of the equivalent entry in diffServMeterTable which
     points at the TB table - needs diffServTBMeterStatus: daughters
     must be created explicitly by manager).

(30) Related to (17) - multi-manager creation of TCBs:
     diffServClassifierId is unique across the agent, for all values of
     diffServClassifierTcb but there is no "next free" variable to
     report the next TCB to use. This can lead to a race condition when
     2 managers are duelling to create entries with the same value of
     diffServClassifierTcb. There are also legitimate reasons for





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 26]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


     different managers to be "creating" the *same* TCB so a
     conventional "next free" is not a good solution. Is this a rare
     enough occurence given a suitable choice of diffServClassifierTcb
     e.g. pseudo-random? (yes).

(31) When inheritance is needed and parent/daughter share indexing, the
     parent often points to the daughter using a "Specific" attribute
     e.g. diffServMeterSpecific, diffServActionSpecific,
     diffServAlgDropSpecific. If this is a RowPointer and points to the
     associated row in the daughter's table, there is redundant
     information which gives scope for additional error cases. So,
     wherever possible, should we remove this redundant information by
     making the "Specific" attribute point only to the base of the
     daughter table and make it an OBJECT IDENTIFIER? The con is that
     this is an unusual use of MIB pointers (point at table base, not
     individual entries).


7.  MIB Outline

The authors think a MIB outline will assist the reader and can be used
as a quick reference.


diffServMIBObjects     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMib 1 }
diffServMIBConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMib 2 }

diffServDataPath       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMIBObjects 1 }

diffServDataPathTable OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServDataPath 1 }
diffServDataPathEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    INDEX { ifIndex, diffServDataPathIfDirection }
    ::= { diffServDataPathTable 1 }
DiffServDataPathEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServDataPathIfDirection    IfDirection,
    diffServDataPathStart          RowPointer,
    diffServDataPathStatus         RowStatus
}

diffServClassifier     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMIBObjects 2 }

diffServClfrNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServClassifier 1 }
diffServClfrTable OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServClassifier 2 }
diffServClfrEntry OBJECT-TYPE





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 27]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    INDEX { diffServClfrId }
    ::= { diffServClfrTable 1 }
DiffServClfrEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServClfrId              Unsigned32,
    diffServClfrStatus          RowStatus
}

diffServClfrElementNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServClassifier 3 }
diffServClfrElementTable OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServClassifier 4 }
diffServClfrElementEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    INDEX { diffServClfrElementClfrId, diffServClfrElementId }
    ::= { diffServClfrElementTable 1 }
DiffServClfrElementEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServClfrElementId          Unsigned32,
    diffServClfrElementClfrId      Unsigned32,
    diffServClfrElementOrder       Unsigned32,
    diffServClfrElementNext        RowPointer,
    diffServClfrElementSpecific    RowPointer,
    diffServClfrElementStatus      RowStatus
}

diffServSixTupleClfrNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServClassifier 5 }
diffServSixTupleClfrTable OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServClassifier 6 }
diffServSixTupleClfrEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    INDEX { diffServSixTupleClfrId }
    ::= { diffServSixTupleClfrTable 1 }
DiffServSixTupleClfrEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    diffServSixTupleClfrId           Unsigned32,
    diffServSixTupleClfrDstAddrType  InetAddressType,
    diffServSixTupleClfrDstAddr      InetAddress,
    diffServSixTupleClfrDstAddrMask  Unsigned32,
    diffServSixTupleClfrSrcAddrType  InetAddressType,
    diffServSixTupleClfrSrcAddr      InetAddress,
    diffServSixTupleClfrSrcAddrMask  Unsigned32,
    diffServSixTupleClfrDscp         Dscp,
    diffServSixTupleClfrProtocol     Unsigned32,
    diffServSixTupleClfrDstL4PortMin SixTupleClfrL4Port,
    diffServSixTupleClfrDstL4PortMax SixTupleClfrL4Port,
    diffServSixTupleClfrSrcL4PortMin SixTupleClfrL4Port,
    diffServSixTupleClfrSrcL4PortMax SixTupleClfrL4Port,
    diffServSixTupleClfrStatus       RowStatus
}


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 28]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


diffServMeter          OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMIBObjects 3 }

diffServMeterNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServMeter 1 }
diffServMeterTable OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServMeter 2 }
diffServMeterEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    INDEX { diffServMeterId }
    ::= { diffServMeterTable 1 }
DiffServMeterEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServMeterId                Unsigned32,
    diffServMeterSucceedNext       RowPointer,
    diffServMeterFailNext          RowPointer,
    diffServMeterSpecific          RowPointer,
    diffServMeterStatus            RowStatus
}

diffServTBMeterNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServMeter 3 }
diffServTBMeterTable OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServMeter 4 }
diffServTBMeterEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    INDEX { diffServTBMeterId }
    ::= { diffServTBMeterTable 1 }
DiffServTBMeterEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServTBMeterId              Unsigned32,
    diffServTBMeterType            INTEGER,
    diffServTBMeterRate            Unsigned32,
    diffServTBMeterBurstSize       BurstSize,
    diffServTBMeterInterval        Unsigned32,
    diffServTBMeterStatus          RowStatus
}

diffServAction         OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMIBObjects 4 }

diffServActionNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServAction 1 }
diffServActionTable OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServAction 2 }
diffServActionEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    INDEX { diffServActionId }
    ::= { diffServActionTable 1 }
DiffServActionEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServActionId                Unsigned32,
    diffServActionNext              RowPointer,
    diffServActionSpecific          RowPointer,
    diffServActionType              INTEGER,





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 29]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    diffServActionStatus            RowStatus
}

diffServDscpMarkActNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServAction 3 }
diffServDscpMarkActTable OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServAction 4 }
diffServDscpMarkActEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    INDEX { diffServDscpMarkActId }
    ::= { diffServDscpMarkActTable 1 }
DiffServDscpMarkActEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServDscpMarkActId            Unsigned32,
    diffServDscpMarkActDscp          Dscp,
    diffServDscpMarkActStatus        RowStatus
}

diffServCountActNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServAction 5 }
diffServCountActTable OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServAction 6 }
diffServCountActEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    INDEX { diffServCountActId }
    ::= { diffServCountActTable 1 }
DiffServCountActEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServCountActId           Unsigned32,
    diffServCountActOctets       Counter32,
    diffServCountActHCOctets     Counter64,
    diffServCountActPkts         Counter32,
    diffServCountActHCPkts       Counter64,
    diffServCountActDiscontTime  TimeStamp,
    diffServCountActStatus       RowStatus
}

diffServAlgDrop        OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMIBObjects 5 }

diffServAlgDropNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServAlgDrop 1 }
diffServAlgDropTable OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServAlgDrop 2 }
diffServAlgDropEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    INDEX { diffServAlgDropId }
    ::= { diffServAlgDropTable 1 }
DiffServAlgDropEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServAlgDropId               Unsigned32,
    diffServAlgDropType             INTEGER,
    diffServAlgDropNext             RowPointer,
    diffServAlgDropQMeasure         RowPointer,





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 30]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    diffServAlgDropQThreshold       Unsigned32,
    diffServAlgDropSpecific         RowPointer,
    diffServAlgDropOctets           Counter32,
    diffServAlgDropHCOctets         Counter64,
    diffServAlgDropPkts             Counter32,
    diffServAlgDropHCPkts           Counter64,
    diffServAlgDropStatus           RowStatus
}

diffServRandomDropNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServAlgDrop 3 }
diffServRandomDropTable OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServAlgDrop 4 }
diffServRandomDropEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    INDEX { diffServRandomDropId }
    ::= { diffServRandomDropTable 1 }
DiffServRandomDropEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServRandomDropId               Unsigned32,
    diffServRandomDropMinThreshBytes   Unsigned32,
    diffServRandomDropMinThreshPkts    Unsigned32,
    diffServRandomDropMaxThreshBytes   Unsigned32,
    diffServRandomDropMaxThreshPkts    Unsigned32,
    diffServRandomDropInvProbMax       Unsigned32,
    diffServRandomDropInvWeight        Unsigned32,
    diffServRandomDropSamplingRate     Unsigned32,
    diffServRandomDropStatus           RowStatus
}

diffServQueue          OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMIBObjects 6 }

diffServQNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServQueue 1 }
diffServQTable OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServQueue 2 }
diffServQEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    INDEX { diffServQId }
    ::= { diffServQTable 1 }
DiffServQEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServQId                      Unsigned32,
    diffServQNext                    RowPointer,
    diffServQSchdParam               RowPointer,
    diffServQStatus                  RowStatus
}

diffServScheduler      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMIBObjects 7 }

diffServSchedulerNextFree OBJECT-TYPE





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 31]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    ::= { diffServScheduler 1 }
diffServSchedulerTable OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServScheduler 2 }
diffServSchedulerEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    INDEX { diffServSchedulerId }
    ::= { diffServSchedulerTable 1 }
DiffServSchedulerEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServSchedulerId                   Unsigned32,
    diffServSchedulerNext                 RowPointer,
    diffServSchedulerMethod               INTEGER,
    diffServSchedulerSchdParam            RowPointer,
    diffServSchedulerStatus               RowStatus
}

diffServSchdParamNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServScheduler 3 }
diffServSchdParamTable OBJECT-TYPE
    ::= { diffServScheduler 4 }
diffServSchdParamEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    INDEX { diffServSchdParamId }
    ::= { diffServSchdParamTable 1 }
DiffServSchdParamEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServSchdParamId              Unsigned32,
    diffServSchdParamPriority        Unsigned32,
    diffServSchdParamMinRateAbs      Unsigned32,
    diffServSchdParamMinRateRel      Unsigned32,
    diffServSchdParamMaxRateAbs      Unsigned32,
    diffServSchdParamMaxRateRel      Unsigned32,
    diffServSchdParamStatus          RowStatus
}




Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 32]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


8.  MIB Definition



DIFF-SERV-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN



    IMPORTS
    Integer32, Unsigned32, Counter32, Counter64,
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, zeroDotZero, mib-2
         FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    TEXTUAL-CONVENTION, RowStatus, RowPointer, TimeStamp
         FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP
         FROM SNMPv2-CONF
    ifIndex
        FROM IF-MIB
    InetAddressType, InetAddress
        FROM INET-ADDRESS-MIB
    BurstSize
        FROM INTEGRATED-SERVICES-MIB;


diffServMib MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "200011030000Z"
    ORGANIZATION "IETF Diffserv WG"
    CONTACT-INFO
       "       Fred Baker
               Cisco Systems
               519 Lado Drive
               Santa Barbara, CA 93111, USA
               E-mail: fred@cisco.com


               Kwok Ho Chan
               Nortel Networks
               600 Technology Park Drive
               Billerica, MA 01821, USA
               E-mail: khchan@nortelnetworks.com


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 33]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


               Andrew Smith
               E-mail: ah_smith@pacbell.net"
    DESCRIPTION
       "This MIB defines the objects necessary to  manage  a
       device  that  uses the Differentiated Services Archi-
       tecture  described  in  RFC  2475  and  the  Informal
       Management  Model for DiffServ Routers in draft-ietf-
       diffserv-model-04.txt."
    REVISION "200011030000Z"
    DESCRIPTION
       "Initial version, published as RFC xxxx."
    ::= { mib-2 12345 }  -- anybody who uses this unassigned
                         -- number deserves the wrath of IANA


diffServMIBObjects     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMib 1 }
diffServMIBConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMib 2 }



-- These textual conventions have no effect on either the syntax
-- nor the semantics of any managed object.  Objects defined
-- using this convention are always encoded by means of the
-- rules that define their primitive type.


Dscp ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    DISPLAY-HINT "d"
    STATUS   current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The IP header Diffserv Code-Point that may  be  used
       for  discriminating or marking a traffic stream.  The
       value -1 is used to  indicate  a  wildcard  i.e.  any
       value."
    SYNTAX   Integer32 (-1 | 0..63)





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 34]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


SixTupleClfrL4Port ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    DISPLAY-HINT "d"
    STATUS   current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A value indicating a Layer-4 protocol port number."
    SYNTAX   Unsigned32 (0..65535)


IfDirection ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Specifies a direction of data travel  on  an  inter-
       face.  'inbound' traffic is operated on during recep-
       tion from the interface, while 'outbound' traffic  is
       operated on prior to transmission on the interface."
    SYNTAX  INTEGER {
                inbound(1),     -- ingress interface
                outbound(2)     -- egress interface
            }


--
-- Data Path
--

Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 35]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


diffServDataPath       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMIBObjects 1 }

--
-- Data Path Table
--
-- The Data Path Table enumerates the Differentiated Services
-- Data Paths within this device.  Each entry in this table
-- is indexed by ifIndex and ifDirection.  Each entry provides
-- the first diffserv functional datapath element to process data
-- flow for each specific datapath.  This table should have two
-- entries for each interface on this device; ingress and egress.
--
-- Notice all diffserv functional datapath elements linked together
-- using their individual next pointers and anchored by an entry
-- of the diffServDataPathTable must belong to the same datapath.
-- The use of next pointer to point to diffserv functional datapath
-- element of a different datapath is not allowed.
--


diffServDataPathTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF DiffServDataPathEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The data path table defines the data paths  in  this
       device.   Each  data path is defined by the interface
       and traffic direction.  The first diffserv functional
       datapath element to handle traffic for this data path
       is defined by a RowPointer, diffServDataPathStart, in
       the entries of this table."
    ::= { diffServDataPath 1 }


diffServDataPathEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       DiffServDataPathEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An entry in the data path table describes  a  single
       diffserv datapath in this device."
    INDEX { ifIndex, diffServDataPathIfDirection }
    ::= { diffServDataPathTable 1 }


DiffServDataPathEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServDataPathIfDirection    IfDirection,





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 36]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    diffServDataPathStart          RowPointer,
    diffServDataPathStatus         RowStatus
}


diffServDataPathIfDirection OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       IfDirection
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Specifies the direction for  which  this  data  path
       entry applies on this interface."
    ::= { diffServDataPathEntry 1 }


diffServDataPathStart OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This selects the first diffserv functional  datapath
       element  to  handle traffic for this data path.  This
       RowPointer should point to an instance of one of:
         diffServClfrEntry
         diffServMeterEntry
         diffServActionEntry
         diffServAlgDropEntry
         diffServQEntry

       A value of zeroDotZero in this attribute indicates no
       further Diffserv treatment is performed on traffic of
       this datapath.

       If the row pointed to  does  not  exist,  this  whole





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 37]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


       diffserv datapath is ignored."
    ::= { diffServDataPathEntry 2 }


diffServDataPathStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The  RowStatus  variable  controls  the  activation,
       deactivation,  or  deletion of a row/entry. Any writ-
       able variable may be  modified  whether  the  row  is
       active or notInService."
    ::= { diffServDataPathEntry 3 }


--
-- Classifiers
--

diffServClassifier     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMIBObjects 2 }

--
-- Classifier Table
--
-- Classifier allows multiple classifier elements, of same or different
-- types, to be used together.
-- A classifier must completely classify all packets presented to it,
-- this means all traffic handled by a classifier must match
-- at least one classifier element within the classifier,





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 38]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


-- with the classifier element parameters specified by a filter.
--
-- If there is ambiguity between classifier elements of different
-- classifier, the precedence is indicated by the order the classifiers
-- are linked, the first classifier in the link is applied to the
-- traffic first.
--


diffServClfrNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This  object  yields  a  value  when  read  that  is
       currently unused for a diffServClfrId instance.  If a
       configuring system attempts to create a  new  row  in
       the  diffServClfrTable  using this value, that opera-
       tion will fail if the value  has,  in  the  meantime,
       been  used  to  create  another row that is currently
       valid."
    ::= { diffServClassifier 1 }


diffServClfrTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF DiffServClfrEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This table enumerates all  the  diffserv  classifier
       functional  datapath  elements  of  this device.  The
       actual  classification  definitions  are  defined  in
       diffServClfrElementTable  entries  belonging  to each
       classifier."
    REFERENCE
        "[MODEL] section 4.1"
    ::= { diffServClassifier 2 }

Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 39]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


diffServClfrEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       DiffServClfrEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An entry in the classifier table describes a  single
       classifier.  All classifier elements belonging to the
       same classifier uses the classifier's  diffServClfrId
       in thier diffServClfrElementClfrId attribute."
    INDEX { diffServClfrId }
    ::= { diffServClfrTable 1 }


DiffServClfrEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServClfrId              Unsigned32,
    diffServClfrStatus          RowStatus
}


diffServClfrId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An index that enumerates the classifier entries. The
       set  of  such  identifiers  spans  the  whole  agent.
       Managers should obtain new values for row creation in
       this table by reading diffServClfrNextFree."
    ::= { diffServClfrEntry 1 }


diffServClfrStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The  RowStatus  variable  controls  the  activation,
       deactivation,  or deletion of a classifier. Any writ-
       able variable may be  modified  whether  the  row  is
       active or notInService."
    ::= { diffServClfrEntry 2 }


--
-- Classifier Element Table
--
-- Entries in the classifier element table serves as





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 40]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


-- the anchor for each classification pattern, defined
-- in filter table entries.  Each classifier element
-- table entry also specifies the subsequent downstream
-- diffserv functional datapath element when the
-- classification pattern is satisfied.
-- Each entry in the classifier element table describes
-- one branch of the fan-out characteristic of a classifier
-- indicated in [MODEL] section 4.1.  A classifier is madeup
-- of one or more classifier elements.
--


diffServClfrElementNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This  object  yields  a  value  when  read  that  is
       currently    unused   for   a   diffServClfrElementId
       instance.  If a configuring system attempts to create
       a  new row in the diffServClfrElementTable using this
       value, that opera- tion will fail if the value   has,
       in   the   meantime,  been  used  to  create  another
       row that is currently valid."
    ::= { diffServClassifier 3 }


diffServClfrElementTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF DiffServClfrElementEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The classifier element table  enumerates  the  rela-
       tionship  between  classification patterns and subse-





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 41]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


       quent downstream diffserv  functional  datapath  ele-
       ments.   Classification  parameters  are  defined  by
       entries   of   filter   tables    pointed    to    by
       diffServClfrElementSpecific.   There  can  be  filter
       tables of different types, and  they  can  be  inter-
       mixed  and used within a classifier.  An example of a
       filter table defined in this  MIB  is  diffServSixTu-
       pleClfrTable,  for IP Multi-Field Classifiers (MFCs).
       Filter tables for other filter types may  be  defined
       elsewhere."
    REFERENCE
        "[MODEL] section 4.1"
    ::= { diffServClassifier 4 }


diffServClfrElementEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       DiffServClfrElementEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An entry in the classifier element table describes a
       single element of the classifier."
    INDEX { diffServClfrElementClfrId, diffServClfrElementId }
    ::= { diffServClfrElementTable 1 }

DiffServClfrElementEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServClfrElementId          Unsigned32,
    diffServClfrElementClfrId      Unsigned32,
    diffServClfrElementOrder       Unsigned32,
    diffServClfrElementNext        RowPointer,
    diffServClfrElementSpecific    RowPointer,
    diffServClfrElementStatus      RowStatus
}

Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 42]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


diffServClfrElementId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An index  that  enumerates  the  Classifier  Element
       entries.  The set of such identifiers spans the whole
       agent. Managers should  obtain  new  values  for  row
       creation     in     this     table     by     reading
       diffServClfrElementNextFree."
    ::= { diffServClfrElementEntry 1 }


diffServClfrElementClfrId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A classifier Id  identifies  which  classifier  this
       classifier  element  is  a part of.  This needs to be
       the value of diffServClfrId attribute for an existing
       row in diffServClfrTable."
    ::= { diffServClfrElementEntry 2 }


diffServClfrElementOrder OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The relative order in which classifier elements  are
       applied:   higher  numbers  represent classifier ele-
       ment with  higher  precedence.   Classifier  elements
       with the same order  must  be  unambiguous  i.e. they
       must define non-overlapping patterns, and  are   con-
       sidered   to   be  applied   simultaneously   to  the
       traffic stream. Clas- sifier elements with  different
       order   may  overlap in their  filters:  the classif-
       ier element with the highest order  that  matches  is
       taken.

       On a given interface, there must be a complete  clas-
       sifier   in   place   at  all  times in   the ingress


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 43]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


       direction.  This means that there will always be  one
       or  more  filters that match every possible pat- tern
       that  could  be  presented  in  an  incoming  packet.
       There  is  no  such  requirement in the egress direc-
       tion."
    DEFVAL { 0 }
    ::= { diffServClfrElementEntry 3 }


diffServClfrElementNext OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This attribute provides one branch  of  the  fan-out
       functionality  of  a  classifier described in [MODEL]
       section 4.1.

       This selects the next  diffserv  functional  datapath
       element  to  handle traffic for this data path.  This
       RowPointer should point to an instance of one of:
         diffServClfrEntry
         diffServMeterEntry
         diffServActionEntry
         diffServAlgDropEntry
         diffServQEntry

       A value of zeroDotZero in this attribute indicates no
       further Diffserv treatment is performed on traffic of
       this datapath.

       If the row pointed to does not exist,  the  treatment
       is  as  if  this  attribute contains a value of zero-
       DotZero."
    ::= { diffServClfrElementEntry 4 }


diffServClfrElementSpecific OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A pointer to a  valid  entry   in   another   table,
       filter table, that describes  the applicable classif-
       ication parameters, e.g.  an entry in  diffServSixTu-
       pleClfrTable.


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 44]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


       If the row pointed to does not exist, the  classifier
       element is ignored.

       The value zeroDotZero is interpreted  to  match  any-
       thing  not  matched  by  another classifier element -
       only one such entry may exist for each classifier."
    DEFVAL { zeroDotZero }
    ::= { diffServClfrElementEntry 5 }


diffServClfrElementStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The  RowStatus  variable  controls  the  activation,
       deactivation,   or  deletion of a classifier element.
       Any writ- able variable  may  be   modified   whether
       the  row  is active or notInService."
    ::= { diffServClfrElementEntry 6 }


--
-- IP Six-Tuple Classification Table
--
-- Classification based on 6 different fields in the IP
-- header. This is intended to be IP-version-independent.
-- Filters, entries in this table, may be shared, pointed to,
-- by multiple diffServClfrElementEntry, of same or different
-- datapaths in the same system.
--


diffServSixTupleClfrNextFree OBJECT-TYPE





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 45]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This object yields a value when read that is currently unused
       for a diffServSixTupleClfrId instance.
       If a configuring system attempts to create a new row
       in the diffServSixTupleClfrTable using this value, that operation
       will fail if the value has, in the meantime, been used
       to create another row that is currently valid."
    ::= { diffServClassifier 5 }


diffServSixTupleClfrTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX   SEQUENCE OF DiffServSixTupleClfrEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS   current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A table of IP Six-Tuple  Classifier  filter  entries
       that a system may use to identify IP traffic."
    REFERENCE
        "[MODEL] section 4.2.2"
    ::= { diffServClassifier 6 }


diffServSixTupleClfrEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       DiffServSixTupleClfrEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS   current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An IP Six-Tuple Classifier entry describes a  single
       filter."
    INDEX { diffServSixTupleClfrId }
    ::= { diffServSixTupleClfrTable 1 }

Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 46]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


DiffServSixTupleClfrEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    diffServSixTupleClfrId           Unsigned32,
    diffServSixTupleClfrDstAddrType  InetAddressType,
    diffServSixTupleClfrDstAddr      InetAddress,
    diffServSixTupleClfrDstAddrMask  Unsigned32,
    diffServSixTupleClfrSrcAddrType  InetAddressType,
    diffServSixTupleClfrSrcAddr      InetAddress,
    diffServSixTupleClfrSrcAddrMask  Unsigned32,
    diffServSixTupleClfrDscp         Dscp,
    diffServSixTupleClfrProtocol     Unsigned32,
    diffServSixTupleClfrDstL4PortMin SixTupleClfrL4Port,
    diffServSixTupleClfrDstL4PortMax SixTupleClfrL4Port,
    diffServSixTupleClfrSrcL4PortMin SixTupleClfrL4Port,
    diffServSixTupleClfrSrcL4PortMax SixTupleClfrL4Port,
    diffServSixTupleClfrStatus       RowStatus
}


diffServSixTupleClfrId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS     not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An index that enumerates the  Six  Tuple  Classifier
       filter  entries.   The  set of such identifiers spans
       the whole agent.  Managers should obtain  new  values
       for   row   creation   in   this   table  by  reading
       diffServSixTupleClfrNextFree."
    ::= { diffServSixTupleClfrEntry 1 }


diffServSixTupleClfrDstAddrType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         InetAddressType
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The type of IP  destination  address  used  by  this
       classifier entry."
    ::= { diffServSixTupleClfrEntry 2 }


diffServSixTupleClfrDstAddr OBJECT-TYPE




Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 47]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    SYNTAX         InetAddress
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The IP address to match against the packet's  desti-
       nation IP address."
    ::= { diffServSixTupleClfrEntry 3 }


diffServSixTupleClfrDstAddrMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         Unsigned32
    UNITS          "bits"
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The length of a mask for the matching of the  desti-
       nation  IP address.  Masks are constructed by setting
       bits in sequence from the most-significant bit  down-
       wards    for   diffServSixTupleClfrDstAddrMask   bits
       length. All other bits in the mask, up to the  number
       needed to fill the length of the address diffServSix-
       TupleClfrDstAddr are cleared to zero.  A zero bit  in
       the mask then means that the corresponding bit in the
       address always matches."
    DEFVAL         {0}
    ::= { diffServSixTupleClfrEntry 4 }


diffServSixTupleClfrSrcAddrType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         InetAddressType
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The type of IP source address used by this  classif-
       ier entry."
    ::= { diffServSixTupleClfrEntry 5 }


diffServSixTupleClfrSrcAddr OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         InetAddress
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The IP  address  to  match  against  the  source  IP
       address of each packet."
    ::= { diffServSixTupleClfrEntry 6 }


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 48]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


diffServSixTupleClfrSrcAddrMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         Unsigned32
    UNITS          "bits"
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The length of a mask for the matching of the  source
       IP address.  Masks are constructed by setting bits in
       sequence from the most-significant bit downwards  for
       diffServSixTupleClfrSrcAddrMask   bits   length.  All
       other bits in the mask, up to the  number  needed  to
       fill   the   length  of  the  address  diffServSixTu-
       pleClfrSrcAddr are cleared to zero.  A  zero  bit  in
       the mask then means that the corresponding bit in the
       address always matches."
    DEFVAL         {0}
    ::= { diffServSixTupleClfrEntry 7 }


diffServSixTupleClfrDscp OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         Dscp
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The value that the DSCP in the packet must  have  to
       match  this  entry.  A  value  of -1 indicates that a
       specific DSCP value has not been defined and thus all
       DSCP values are considered a match."
    DEFVAL         {-1}
    ::= { diffServSixTupleClfrEntry 8 }


diffServSixTupleClfrProtocol OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         Unsigned32 (0..255)





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 49]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The IP protocol to match against the  IPv4  protocol
       number  in  the  packet.  A value of zero means match
       all."
    DEFVAL         {0}
    ::= { diffServSixTupleClfrEntry 9 }


diffServSixTupleClfrDstL4PortMin OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         SixTupleClfrL4Port
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The minimum value that the layer-4 destination  port
       number in the packet must have in order to match this
       classifier entry."
    DEFVAL         {0}
    ::= { diffServSixTupleClfrEntry 10 }


diffServSixTupleClfrDstL4PortMax OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         SixTupleClfrL4Port
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The maximum value that the layer-4 destination  port
       number in the packet must have in order to match this
       classifier entry. This value  must  be  equal  to  or
       greater  than  the  value specified for this entry in
       diffServSixTupleClfrDstL4PortMin."
    DEFVAL         {65535}
    ::= { diffServSixTupleClfrEntry 11 }





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 50]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


diffServSixTupleClfrSrcL4PortMin OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         SixTupleClfrL4Port
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The minimum  value  that  the  layer-4  source  port
       number in the packet must have in order to match this
       classifier entry."
    DEFVAL         {0}
    ::= { diffServSixTupleClfrEntry 12 }


diffServSixTupleClfrSrcL4PortMax OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX         SixTupleClfrL4Port
    MAX-ACCESS     read-create
    STATUS         current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The maximum  value  that  the  layer-4  source  port
       number  in the packet must have in oder to match this
       classifier entry. This value  must  be  equal  to  or
       greater  than  the  value specified for this entry in
       diffServSixTupleClfrSrcL4PortMin."
    DEFVAL         {65535}
    ::= { diffServSixTupleClfrEntry 13 }


diffServSixTupleClfrStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS  read-create
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The  RowStatus  variable  controls  the  activation,
       deactivation,  or deletion of a classifier. Any writ-
       able variable may be  modified  whether  the  row  is
       active or notInService."
    ::= { diffServSixTupleClfrEntry 14 }




Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 51]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


--
-- Meters
--

diffServMeter          OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMIBObjects 3 }

--
-- This MIB supports a variety of Meters.  It includes a
-- specific definition for Meters whose parameter set can
-- be modelled using Token Bucket parameters.
-- Other metering parameter sets can be defined and used
-- when necessary.
--
-- Multiple meter elements may be logically cascaded using
-- their diffServMeterSucceedNext and diffServMeterFailNext
-- pointers if required.
-- One example of this might be for an AF PHB implementation
-- that uses multiple level conformance meters.
--
-- Cascading of individual meter elements in the MIB is
-- intended to be functionally equivalent to multiple level
-- conformance determination of a packet.  The sequential
-- nature of the representation is merely a notational
-- convenience for this MIB.
--
-- For example:
-- Conforming to RFC 2697, srTCM can be parameterized using
-- two sets of diffServMeterEntry and diffServTBMeterEntry.
-- With the first set parameterizing the Committed Burst Size
-- token-bucket, second set parameterizing the Excess Burst Size
-- token-bucket.  With both set's diffServTBMeterRate parameters
-- being used to reflect the Committed Information Rate value.
--
-- Conforming to RFC 2698, trTCM can be parameterized using
-- two sets of diffServMeterEntry and diffServTBMeterEntry.
-- With the first set parameterizing the Peak Information Rate
-- and Peak Burst Size token-bucket, second set parameterizing
-- the Committed Information Rate and Committed Burst Size
-- token-bucket.
--
-- Conforming to RFC 2859, tswTCM can be parameterized using
-- two sets of diffServMeterEntry and diffServTBMeterEntry.
-- With the first set parameterizing the Committed Target Rate,
-- second set parametering the Peak Target Rate.
-- With both set's diffServTBMeterInterval being used to
-- reflect the Average Interval as specified by RFC 2859.
--





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 52]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


diffServMeterNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This  object  yields  a  value  when  read  that  is
       currently  unused for a diffServMeterId instance.  If
       a configuring system attempts to create a new row  in
       the  diffServMeterTable using this value, that opera-
       tion will fail if the value  has,  in  the  meantime,
       been  used  to  create  another row that is currently
       valid."
    ::= { diffServMeter 1 }


diffServMeterTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF DiffServMeterEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This table enumerates specific meters that a  system
       may use to police, or shape, a stream of traffic. The
       traffic stream to be metered  is  determined  by  the
       diffserv  functional  datapath element(s) upstream of
       the meter i.e. by the object(s) that  point  to  each
       entry in this table.  This may include all traffic on
       an interface.

       Specific meter details are to be found in table entry
       referenced by diffServMeterSpecific."
           REFERENCE
               "[MODEL] section 5.1"
    ::= { diffServMeter 2 }


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 53]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


diffServMeterEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       DiffServMeterEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An entry in the meter table describes a single  con-
       formance level of a meter."
    INDEX { diffServMeterId }
    ::= { diffServMeterTable 1 }


DiffServMeterEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServMeterId                Unsigned32,
    diffServMeterSucceedNext       RowPointer,
    diffServMeterFailNext          RowPointer,
    diffServMeterSpecific          RowPointer,
    diffServMeterStatus            RowStatus
}


diffServMeterId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An index that enumerates the Meter entries. The  set
       of  such  identifiers spans the whole agent. Managers
       should obtain new values for  row  creation  in  this
       table by reading diffServMeterNextFree."
    ::= { diffServMeterEntry 1 }


diffServMeterSucceedNext OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 54]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "If the traffic does conform, this selects  the  next
       diffserv   functional   datapath  element  to  handle
       traffic for this data path.  This  RowPointer  should
       point to an instance of one of:
         diffServClfrEntry
         diffServMeterEntry
         diffServActionEntry
         diffServAlgDropEntry
         diffServQEntry

       A value of zeroDotZero in this attribute indicates no
       further Diffserv treatment is performed on traffic of
       this datapath.

       If the row pointed to does not exist,  the  treatment
       is  as  if  this  attribute contains a value of zero-
       DotZero."
    DEFVAL      { zeroDotZero }
    ::= { diffServMeterEntry 2 }


diffServMeterFailNext OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "If the traffic does not conform,  this  selects  the
       next  diffserv  functional datapath element to handle
       traffic for this data path.  This  RowPointer  should
       point to an instance of one of:
         diffServClfrEntry
         diffServMeterEntry
         diffServActionEntry
         diffServAlgDropEntry
         diffServQEntry

       A value of zeroDotZero in this attribute indicates no
       further Diffserv treatment is performed on traffic of





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 55]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


       this datapath.

       If the row pointed to does not exist,  the  treatment
       is  as  if  this  attribute contains a value of zero-
       DotZero."
    DEFVAL      { zeroDotZero }
    ::= { diffServMeterEntry 3 }


diffServMeterSpecific OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This indicates the behaviour of the meter by  point-
       ing  to an entry containing detailed parameters. Note
       that entries in that specific table must  be  managed
       explicitly.

       For example, diffServMeterSpecific may  point  to  an
       entry  in  diffServTBMeterTable,  which  contains  an
       instance of a single set of Token Bucket parameters."
    ::= { diffServMeterEntry 4 }


diffServMeterStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The  RowStatus  variable  controls  the  activation,
       deactivation,  or  deletion  of a meter. Any writable
       variable may be modified whether the row is active or
       notInService."
    ::= { diffServMeterEntry 5 }


--
-- Token Bucket Meter Table
--
-- Each entry in the Token Bucket Meter Table parameterize
-- a single token bucket.  Multiple token buckets can be
-- used together to parameterize multiple levels of
-- conformance.
--
-- Note that an entry in the Token Bucket Meter Table can
-- be shared, pointed to, by multiple diffServMeterTable





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 56]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


-- entries.
--


diffServTBMeterNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This  object  yields  a  value  when  read  that  is
       currently  unused  for  a diffServTBMeterId instance.
       If a configuring system attempts to create a new  row
       in  the  diffServTBMeterTable  using this value, that
       operation will fail if the value has,  in  the  mean-
       time,  been  used  to  create  another  row  that  is
       currently valid."
    ::= { diffServMeter 3 }


diffServTBMeterTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF DiffServTBMeterEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This table enumerates a single set of  token  bucket
       meter  parameters  that  a system may use to police a
       stream of traffic.  Such meters are modelled here  as
       having a single rate and a single burst size."
    REFERENCE
        "[MODEL] section 5.1"
    ::= { diffServMeter 4 }


diffServTBMeterEntry OBJECT-TYPE





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 57]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    SYNTAX       DiffServTBMeterEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An entry that describes a single set of token bucket
       meter parameters."
    INDEX { diffServTBMeterId }
    ::= { diffServTBMeterTable 1 }


DiffServTBMeterEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServTBMeterId              Unsigned32,
    diffServTBMeterType            INTEGER,
    diffServTBMeterRate            Unsigned32,
    diffServTBMeterBurstSize       BurstSize,
    diffServTBMeterInterval        Unsigned32,
    diffServTBMeterStatus          RowStatus
}


diffServTBMeterId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An index that enumerates the  TBMeter  entries.  The
       set  of  such  identifiers  spans  the  whole  agent.
       Managers should obtain new values for row creation in
       this table by reading diffServTBMeterNextFree."
    ::= { diffServTBMeterEntry 1 }


diffServTBMeterType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       INTEGER {





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 58]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


                     other(1),        -- not listed here
                     tokenBucket(2),  -- Simple Token Bucket
                     avgRate(3),      -- Average Rate
                     srTCMBlind(4),   -- srTCM, Color-blind
                     srTCMAware(5),   -- srTCM, Color-aware
                     trTCMBlind(6),   -- trTCM, Color-blind
                     trTCMAware(7),   -- trTCM, Color-aware
                     tswTCM(8)        -- tswTCM
                 }
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The type of meter using parameters specified by this
       TBMeter entry.

       Value of tokenBucket(2)  indicates  the  use  of  Two
       Parameter  Token Bucket Meter as described in [MODEL]
       section 5.2.3.

       Value of avgRate(3) indicates the use of Average Rate
       Meter as described in [MODEL] section 5.2.1.

       Value of srTCMBlind(4)  and  srTCMAware(5)  indicates
       the use of Single Rate Three Color Marker Metering as
       defined by RFC 2697, with `Color  Blind'  and  `Color
       Aware' mode as described by the RFC.

       Value of trTCMBlind(6)  and  trTCMAware(7)  indicates
       the  use  of  Two Rate Three Color Marker Metering as
       defined by RFC 2698, with `Color  Blind'  and  `Color
       Aware' mode as described by the RFC.

       Value of tswTCM(8) indicates the use of Time  Sliding
       Window  Three Color Marker Metering as defined by RFC
       2859."
    REFERENCE
        "[MODEL] section 5"
    ::= { diffServTBMeterEntry 2 }


diffServTBMeterRate OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    UNITS        "kilobits per second"
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 59]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The  token-bucket  rate,  in  kilobits  per   second
       (kbps).   This  attribute  is used for: 1. CIR in RFC
       2697 for srTCM 2. PIR and CIR in FRC 2698  for  trTCM
       3.  CTR and PTR in RFC 2859 for TSWTCM 4. AverageRate
       used in [MODEL] section 5."
    ::= { diffServTBMeterEntry 3 }


diffServTBMeterBurstSize OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       BurstSize
    UNITS        "Bytes"
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The maximum number of bytes in a single transmission
       burst.  This attribute is used for: 1. CBS and EBS in
       RFC 2697 for srTCM 2. CBS and PBS  in  FRC  2698  for
       trTCM 3. Burst Size used in [MODEL] section 5."
    ::= { diffServTBMeterEntry 4 }


diffServTBMeterInterval OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    UNITS        "microseconds"
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The time interval used with the token bucket.   For:
       1.  Average  Rate  Meter,  [MODEL]  section  5.2.1, -
       Delta.  2. Simple Token Bucket Meter, [MODEL] section
       5.1,
          -  time  interval  t.   3.  RFC  2859  TSWTCM,   -
       AVG_INTERVAL.   4.  RFC 2697 srTCM, RFC 2698 trTCM, -
       token bucket
          update time interval."
    ::= { diffServTBMeterEntry 5 }


diffServTBMeterStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The  RowStatus  variable  controls  the  activation,
       deactivation,  or  deletion  of a meter. Any writable





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 60]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


       variable may be modified whether the row is active or
       notInService."
    ::= { diffServTBMeterEntry 6 }


--
-- Actions
--

diffServAction         OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMIBObjects 4 }

--
-- The Action Table allows enumeration of the different
-- types of actions to be applied to a traffic flow.
--


diffServActionNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This  object  yields  a  value  when  read  that  is
       currently unused for a diffServActionId instance.  If
       a configuring system attempts to create a new row  in
       the diffServActionTable using this value, that opera-
       tion will fail if the value  has,  in  the  meantime,
       been  used  to  create  another row that is currently
       valid."
    ::= { diffServAction 1 }


diffServActionTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF DiffServActionEntry





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 61]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Action Table enumerates actions that can be per-
       formed  to  a stream of traffic. Multiple actions can
       be concatenated.  For example, after marking a stream
       of  traffic  exiting  from a meter, a device can then
       perform a count action  of  the  conforming  or  non-
       conforming traffic.

       Specific actions  are  indicated  by  diffServAction-
       Specific  which  points  to  an  entry  of a specific
       action type parameterizing the action in detail."
    REFERENCE
        "[MODEL] section 6."
    ::= { diffServAction 2 }


diffServActionEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       DiffServActionEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Each entry in the action table allows description of
       one specific action to be applied to traffic."
    INDEX { diffServActionId }
    ::= { diffServActionTable 1 }


DiffServActionEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServActionId                Unsigned32,
    diffServActionNext              RowPointer,
    diffServActionSpecific          RowPointer,
    diffServActionType              INTEGER,





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 62]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    diffServActionStatus            RowStatus
}


diffServActionId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An index that enumerates the Action entries. The set
       of  such  identifiers spans the whole agent. Managers
       should obtain new values for  row  creation  in  this
       table by reading diffServActionNextFree."
    ::= { diffServActionEntry 1 }


diffServActionNext OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This selects the next diffserv  functional  datapath
       element  to  handle traffic for this data path.  This
       RowPointer should point to an instance of one of:
         diffServClfrEntry
         diffServMeterEntry
         diffServActionEntry
         diffServAlgDropEntry
         diffServQEntry

       A value of zeroDotZero in this attribute indicates no
       further Diffserv treatment is performed on traffic of
       this datapath.

       If the row pointed to does not exist,  the  treatment
       is  as  if  this  attribute contains a value of zero-
       DotZero."
    DEFVAL      { zeroDotZero }
    ::= { diffServActionEntry 2 }


diffServActionSpecific OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer



Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 63]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A pointer to an object instance providing additional
       information  for the type of action indicated by this
       action table entry.

       For the standard actions defined by this MIB  module,
       this   should  point  to  one  of  the  following:  a
       diffServDscpMarkActEntry,  a   diffServCountActEntry.
       For other actions, it may point to an object instance
       defined in some other MIB."
    ::= { diffServActionEntry 3 }


diffServActionType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       INTEGER {
                     other(1),       -- types not specified here
                     specific(2),    -- follow the Specific pointer
                     absoluteDrop(3) -- disallow traffic
                 }
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Indicates the type of action. The values specific(2)
       must   be  associated  with  additional  information,
       pointed to by diffServActionSpecific, with the actual
       action type indicated by the object being pointed to.
       The value absoluteDrop(3) has no associated  informa-
       tion  and will have a diffServActionSpecific value of
       zeroDotZero.  The use  of  other(1)  is  outside  the
       scope  of  this  definition, although the diffServAc-
       tionSpecific pointer may be used  in  this  case,  to
       indicate other information."
    ::= { diffServActionEntry 4 }


diffServActionStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The  RowStatus  variable  controls  the  activation,
       deactivation  or  deletion  of an action element. Any
       writable variable may be modified whether the row  is
       active or notInService."
    ::= { diffServActionEntry 5 }





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 64]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


--
-- DSCP Mark Action Table
--
-- Rows of this table are pointed to by diffServActionSpecific
-- to provide detailed parameters specific to the DSCP
-- Mark action.
--
-- A single entry in this table can be shared, pointed to, by
-- multiple diffServActionTable entries, of same or different
-- datapaths.
--

diffServDscpMarkActNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This object yields a value when read that is currently unused
       for a diffServDscpMarkActId instance.
       If a configuring system attempts to create a new row
       in the diffServDscpMarkActTable using this value, that operation
       will fail if the value has, in the meantime, been used
       to create another row that is currently valid."
    ::= { diffServAction 3 }


diffServDscpMarkActTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF DiffServDscpMarkActEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This table enumerates specific DSCPs used for  mark-
       ing  or  remarking  the DSCP field of IP packets. The
       entries of this table may be referenced by a diffSer-





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 65]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


       vActionSpecific attribute."
    REFERENCE
        "[MODEL] section 6.1"
    ::= { diffServAction 4 }


diffServDscpMarkActEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       DiffServDscpMarkActEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An  entry  in  the  DSCP  mark  action  table   that
       describes a single DSCP used for marking."
    INDEX { diffServDscpMarkActId }
    ::= { diffServDscpMarkActTable 1 }


DiffServDscpMarkActEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServDscpMarkActId            Unsigned32,
    diffServDscpMarkActDscp          Dscp,
    diffServDscpMarkActStatus        RowStatus
}


diffServDscpMarkActId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An index that enumerates the  Mark  Action  entries.
       The  set  of  such identifiers spans the whole agent.
       Managers should obtain new values for row creation in
       this table by reading diffServDscpMarkActNextFree."
    ::= { diffServDscpMarkActEntry 1 }

Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 66]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


diffServDscpMarkActDscp OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Dscp
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The DSCP that this Action uses for marking/remarking
       traffic.  Note that a DSCP value of -1 is not permit-
       ted in this table.  It is  quite  possible  that  the
       only  packets  subject  to  this  Action  are already
       marked with this DSCP. Note also  that  Diffserv  may
       result  in packet remarking both on ingress to a net-
       work and on egress from it and it is  quite  possible
       that  ingress  and  egress  would  occur  in the same
       router."
    ::= { diffServDscpMarkActEntry 2 }


diffServDscpMarkActStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The  RowStatus  variable  controls  the  activation,
       deactivation, or deletion of this entry. Any writable
       variable may be modified whether the row is active or
       notInService."
    ::= { diffServDscpMarkActEntry 3 }


--
-- Count Action Table
--
-- Due to the fact that the MIB structure allows multiple
-- cascading diffServActionEntry be used to describe
-- multiple actions for a datapath, the counter became an
-- optional action type.  In normal implementation, a
-- datapath either have counters or it doesn't, it is not
-- an element the management entity can add or remove.
-- The management entity can choose to read the counter or
-- not.  Hence it is recommended for implementation that
-- have counters to always configure the count action as





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 67]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


-- the first of multiple actions, for example before the
-- the absolute drop action.
--


diffServCountActNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This object yields a value when read that is currently unused
       for a diffServCountActId instance.
       If a configuring system attempts to create a new row
       in the diffServCountActTable using this value, that operation
       will fail if the value has, in the meantime, been used
       to create another row that is currently valid."
    ::= { diffServAction 5 }


diffServCountActTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF DiffServCountActEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This table contains counters  for  all  the  traffic
       passing through an action element."
    REFERENCE
        "[MODEL] section 6.4"
    ::= { diffServAction 6 }


diffServCountActEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       DiffServCountActEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An entry in the count action table describes a  sin-
       gle set of traffic counters."
    INDEX { diffServCountActId }
    ::= { diffServCountActTable 1 }


DiffServCountActEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServCountActId           Unsigned32,
    diffServCountActOctets       Counter32,
    diffServCountActHCOctets     Counter64,
    diffServCountActPkts         Counter32,





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 68]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    diffServCountActHCPkts       Counter64,
    diffServCountActDiscontTime  TimeStamp,
    diffServCountActStatus       RowStatus
}


diffServCountActId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An index that enumerates the Count  Action  entries.
       The  set  of  such identifiers spans the whole agent.
       Managers should obtain new values for row creation in
       this table by reading diffServCountActNextFree."
    ::= { diffServCountActEntry 1 }


diffServCountActOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The number of octets at the Action datapath element.
       On  high  speed  devices,  this object implements the
       least significant 32  bits  of  diffServCountActHCOc-
       tets.

       Discontinuities in the  value  of  this  counter  can
       occur  at  re-initialization of the management system
       and at other times  as  indicated  by  the  value  of
       diffServCountActDiscontTime for this entry."
    ::= { diffServCountActEntry 2 }


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 69]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


diffServCountActHCOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The number of octets at the Action datapath element.
       This object should be used on high speed interfaces.

       Discontinuities in the  value  of  this  counter  can
       occur  at  re-initialization of the management system
       and at other times  as  indicated  by  the  value  of
       diffServCountActDiscontTime for this entry."
    ::= { diffServCountActEntry 3 }


diffServCountActPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The number of packets at the  Action  datapath  ele-
       ment.   On high speed devices, this object implements
       the  least  significant  32  bits  of   diffServCoun-
       tActHCPkts.
       Discontinuities in the  value  of  this  counter  can
       occur  at  re-initialization of the management system
       and at other times  as  indicated  by  the  value  of
       diffServCountActDiscontTime for this entry."
    ::= { diffServCountActEntry 4 }


diffServCountActHCPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 70]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The number of packets at the  Action  datapath  ele-
       ment.   This  object  should  be  used  on high speed
       interfaces.

       Discontinuities in the  value  of  this  counter  can
       occur  at  re-initialization of the management system
       and at other times  as  indicated  by  the  value  of
       diffServCountActDiscontTime for this entry."
    ::= { diffServCountActEntry 5 }


diffServCountActDiscontTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The value of sysUpTime on the most  recent  occasion
       at  which  any  one  or more of this entry's counters
       suffered a discontinuity. If no such  discontinuities
       have occurred since the last re-initialization of the
       local management subsystem, then this object contains
       a zero value."
    ::= { diffServCountActEntry 6 }


diffServCountActStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The  RowStatus  variable  controls  the  activation,
       deactivation, or deletion of this entry. Any writable
       variable may be modified whether the row is active or
       notInService."
    ::= { diffServCountActEntry 7 }


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 71]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


--
-- Algorithmic Drop Table
--

diffServAlgDrop        OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMIBObjects 5 }


diffServAlgDropNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This  object  yields  a  value  when  read  that  is
       currently  unused  for  a diffServAlgDropId instance.
       If a configuring system attempts to create a new  row
       in  the  diffServAlgDropTable  using this value, that
       operation will fail if the value has,  in  the  mean-
       time,  been  used  to  create  another  row  that  is
       currently valid."
    ::= { diffServAlgDrop 1 }


diffServAlgDropTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF DiffServAlgDropEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The algorithmic drop table contains entries describ-
       ing  an  element that drops packets according to some
       algorithm."
    REFERENCE
        "[MODEL] section 7.1.3"
    ::= { diffServAlgDrop 2 }


diffServAlgDropEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       DiffServAlgDropEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An entry describes  a  process  that  drops  packets
       according  to some algorithm.  Further details of the
       algorithm type are to be found in diffServAlgDropType
       and  with  more  detail parameter entry pointed to by
       diffServAlgDropSpecific when necessary."
    INDEX { diffServAlgDropId }
    ::= { diffServAlgDropTable 1 }





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 72]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


DiffServAlgDropEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServAlgDropId               Unsigned32,
    diffServAlgDropType             INTEGER,
    diffServAlgDropNext             RowPointer,
    diffServAlgDropQMeasure         RowPointer,
    diffServAlgDropQThreshold       Unsigned32,
    diffServAlgDropSpecific         RowPointer,
    diffServAlgDropOctets           Counter32,
    diffServAlgDropHCOctets         Counter64,
    diffServAlgDropPkts             Counter32,
    diffServAlgDropHCPkts           Counter64,
    diffServAlgDropStatus           RowStatus
}


diffServAlgDropId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An index that  enumerates  the  Algorithmic  Dropper
       entries.  The set of such identifiers spans the whole
       agent. Managers should  obtain  new  values  for  row
       creation  in  this  table by reading diffServAlgDrop-
       NextFree."
    ::= { diffServAlgDropEntry 1 }


diffServAlgDropType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       INTEGER {
                     other(1),
                     tailDrop(2),
                     headDrop(3),
                     randomDrop(4)





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 73]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


                 }
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The type of algorithm used by this dropper. A  value
       of tailDrop(2) or headDrop(3) represents an algorithm
       that is completely specified by this MIB.  A value of
       other(1) requires further specification in some other
       MIB module.

       The tailDrop(2) algorithm is  described  as  follows:
       diffServAlgDropQThreshold represents the depth of the
       queue,  pointed  to  by  diffServAlgDropQMeasure,  at
       which all newly arriving packets will be dropped.

       The headDrop(3) algorithm is described as follows: if
       a packet arrives when the current depth of the queue,
       pointed to by diffServAlgDropQMeasure, is at diffSer-
       vAlgDropQThreshold,  packets currently at the head of
       the queue are dropped to make room for the new packet
       to be enqueued at the tail of the queue.

       The randomDrop(4) algorithm is described as  follows:
       on packet arrival, an algorithm is executed which may
       randomly drop the packet,  or  drop  other  packet(s)
       from  the  queue  in  its place. The specifics of the
       algorithm may be  proprietary.  For  this  algorithm,
       diffServAlgDropSpecific  points  to a diffServRandom-
       DropEntry that describes  the  algorithm.   For  this
       algorithm,  diffServAlgQThreshold is understood to be
       the absolute maximum size of the queue and additional
       parameters are described in diffServRandomDropTable."
    ::= { diffServAlgDropEntry 2 }


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 74]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


diffServAlgDropNext OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This selects the next diffserv  functional  datapath
       element  to  handle traffic for this data path.  This
       RowPointer should point to an instance of one of:
         diffServClfrEntry
         diffServMeterEntry
         diffServActionEntry
         diffServAlgDropEntry
         diffServQEntry

       A value of zeroDotZero in this attribute indicates no
       further Diffserv treatment is performed on traffic of
       this datapath.

       If the row pointed to does not exist,  the  treatment
       is  as  if  this  attribute contains a value of zero-
       DotZero."
    ::= { diffServAlgDropEntry 3 }


diffServAlgDropQMeasure OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Points to an entry in the diffServQTable to indicate
       the  queue  that  a drop algorithm is to monitor when
       deciding whether  to  drop  a  packet.   If  the  row
       pointed  to  does  not exist, the algorithmic dropper
       element is considered inactive."
    ::= { diffServAlgDropEntry 4 }


diffServAlgDropQThreshold OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    UNITS        "Bytes"
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 75]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A threshold on the depth in bytes of the queue being
       measured at which a trigger is generated to the drop-
       ping algorithm.

       For the tailDrop(2) or headDrop(3)  algorithms,  this
       represents  the  depth  of  the  queue, pointed to by
       diffServAlgDropQMeasure, at  which  the  drop  action
       will take place. Other algorithms will need to define
       their own semantics for this threshold."
    ::= { diffServAlgDropEntry 5 }


diffServAlgDropSpecific OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "Points to a table entry that provides further detail
       regarding a drop algorithm.

       Entries with diffServAlgDropType  equal  to  other(1)
       may have this point to a table defined in another MIB
       module.

       Entries with  diffServAlgDropType  equal  to  random-
       Drop(4)  must have this point to an entry in diffSer-
       vRandomDropTable.

       For all other algorithms, this should take the  value
       zeroDotzero."
    ::= { diffServAlgDropEntry 6 }


diffServAlgDropOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The number of octets that have been dropped by  this
       drop  process.   On  high  speed devices, this object
       implements the least significant 32 bits of  diffSer-
       vAlgDropHCOctets.

       Discontinuities in the  value  of  this  counter  can
       occur  at  re-initialization of the management system





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 76]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


       and at other times  as  indicated  by  the  value  of
       ifCounterDiscontinuityTime appropriate to this inter-
       face."
    ::= { diffServAlgDropEntry 7 }


diffServAlgDropHCOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The number of octets that have been dropped by  this
       drop  process.   This  object  should be used on high
       speed interfaces.

       Discontinuities in the  value  of  this  counter  can
       occur  at  re-initialization of the management system
       and at other times  as  indicated  by  the  value  of
       ifCounterDiscontinuityTime appropriate to this inter-
       face."
    ::= { diffServAlgDropEntry 8 }


diffServAlgDropPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The number of packets that have been dropped by this
       drop  process.   On  high  speed devices, this object
       implements the least significant 32 bits of  diffSer-
       vAlgDropHCPkts.

       Discontinuities in the  value  of  this  counter  can
       occur  at  re-initialization of the management system





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 77]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


       and at other times  as  indicated  by  the  value  of
       ifCounterDiscontinuityTime appropriate to this inter-
       face."
    ::= { diffServAlgDropEntry 9 }


diffServAlgDropHCPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The number of packets that have been dropped by this
       drop  process.   This  object  should be used on high
       speed interfaces.

       Discontinuities in the  value  of  this  counter  can
       occur  at  re-initialization of the management system
       and at other times  as  indicated  by  the  value  of
       ifCounterDiscontinuityTime appropriate to this inter-
       face."
    ::= { diffServAlgDropEntry 10 }


diffServAlgDropStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The  RowStatus  variable  controls  the  activation,
       deactivation, or deletion of this entry. Any writable
       variable may be modified whether the row is active or
       notInService."
    ::= { diffServAlgDropEntry 11 }


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 78]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


--
-- Random Drop Table
--


diffServRandomDropNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This  object  yields  a  value  when  read  that  is
       currently unused for a diffServRandomDropId instance.
       If a configuring system attempts to create a new  row
       in the diffServRandomDropTable using this value, that
       operation will fail if the value has,  in  the  mean-
       time,  been  used  to  create  another  row  that  is
       currently valid."
    ::= { diffServAlgDrop 3 }


diffServRandomDropTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF DiffServRandomDropEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The random drop table contains entries describing  a
       process  that drops packets randomly. Entries in this
       table is  intended  to  be  pointed  to  by  diffSer-
       vAlgDropSpecific."
    REFERENCE
        "[MODEL] section 7.1.3"
    ::= { diffServAlgDrop 4 }


diffServRandomDropEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       DiffServRandomDropEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An entry describes  a  process  that  drops  packets
       according to a random algorithm."
    INDEX { diffServRandomDropId }




Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 79]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    ::= { diffServRandomDropTable 1 }


DiffServRandomDropEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServRandomDropId               Unsigned32,
    diffServRandomDropMinThreshBytes   Unsigned32,
    diffServRandomDropMinThreshPkts    Unsigned32,
    diffServRandomDropMaxThreshBytes   Unsigned32,
    diffServRandomDropMaxThreshPkts    Unsigned32,
    diffServRandomDropInvProbMax       Unsigned32,
    diffServRandomDropInvWeight        Unsigned32,
    diffServRandomDropSamplingRate     Unsigned32,
    diffServRandomDropStatus           RowStatus
}


diffServRandomDropId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An index that enumerates the  Random  Drop  entries.
       The  set  of  such identifiers spans the whole agent.
       Managers should obtain new values for row creation in
       this table by reading diffServRandomDropNextFree."
    ::= { diffServRandomDropEntry 1 }


diffServRandomDropMinThreshBytes OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    UNITS        "bytes"
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The average  queue  depth  in  bytes,  beyond  which
       traffic  has a non-zero probability of being dropped.
       Changes in this variable may or may not be  reflected
       in   the   reported   value   of  diffServRandomDrop-
       MinThreshPkts."
    ::= { diffServRandomDropEntry 2 }


diffServRandomDropMinThreshPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    UNITS        "packets"
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 80]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    DESCRIPTION
       "The average queue depth  in  packets,  beyond  which
       traffic  has a non-zero probability of being dropped.
       Changes in this variable may or may not be  reflected
       in the reported value of diffServRandomDropMinThresh-
       Bytes."
    ::= { diffServRandomDropEntry 3 }


diffServRandomDropMaxThreshBytes OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    UNITS        "bytes"
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The average queue depth beyond which traffic  has  a
       probability indicated by diffServRandomDropInvProbMax
       of being dropped or marked. Note  that  this  differs
       from  the  physical  queue  limit, which is stored in
       diffServAlgDropQThreshold.  Changes in this  variable
       may  or may not be reflected in the reported value of
       diffServRandomDropMaxThreshPkts."
    ::= { diffServRandomDropEntry 4 }


diffServRandomDropMaxThreshPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    UNITS        "packets"
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The average queue depth beyond which traffic  has  a
       probability indicated by diffServRandomDropInvProbMax
       of being dropped or marked. Note  that  this  differs





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 81]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


       from  the  physical  queue  limit, which is stored in
       diffServAlgDropQThreshold.  Changes in this  variable
       may  or may not be reflected in the reported value of
       diffServRandomDropMaxThreshBytes."
    ::= { diffServRandomDropEntry 5 }


diffServRandomDropInvProbMax OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The worst case random drop probability, expressed as
       the  inverse  of  the drop probability.  With special
       case of the value zero meaning  zero  probability  of
       drop.

       For example, if every packet may be  dropped  in  the
       worst   case   (100%),   this   has   the   value  of
       4,294,967,295."
    ::= { diffServRandomDropEntry 6 }


diffServRandomDropInvWeight OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The weighting of past history in affecting the  cal-
       culation  of  the  current queue average.  The moving
       average of the queue depth uses the inverse  of  this
       value  as the factor for the new queue depth, and one
       minus that inverse as the factor for  the  historical
       average.





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 82]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


       Implementations may choose to  limit  the  acceptable
       set  of  values to a specified set, such as powers of
       2."
    ::= { diffServRandomDropEntry 7 }


diffServRandomDropSamplingRate OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The number of times per second the queue is  sampled
       for queue average calculation.  A value of zero means
       the queue is sampled approximately each time a packet
       is enqueued (or dequeued)."
    ::= { diffServRandomDropEntry 8 }


diffServRandomDropStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The  RowStatus  variable  controls  the  activation,
       deactivation, or deletion of this entry. Any writable
       variable may be modified whether the row is active or
       notInService."
    ::= { diffServRandomDropEntry 9 }









Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 83]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


--
-- Queue Table
--

diffServQueue          OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMIBObjects 6 }

--
-- An entry of diffServQTable represents a FIFO queue diffserv
-- functional datapath element as described in [MODEL] section
-- 7.1.1.
-- Notice the specification of scheduling parameters for a queue
-- as part of the input to a scheduler functional datapath
-- element as described in [MODEL] section 7.1.2.  This allows
-- building of hierarchical queueing/scheduling.
-- A queue therefore is parameterized by:
-- 1. Which scheduler will service this queue, diffServQNext.
-- 2. How the scheduler will service this queue, with respect
--    to all the other queues the same scheduler needs to service,
--    diffServQSchdParam.
--
-- Notice one or more upstream diffserv datapath element may share,
-- point to, a diffServQTable entry as described in [MODEL] section
-- 7.1.1.
--
-- Each entry of the diffServQTable belongs to one and only one
-- datapath.
--


diffServQNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This  object  yields  a  value  when  read  that  is
       currently  unused  for  a diffServQId instance.  If a
       configuring system attempts to create a  new  row  in
       the  diffServQTable  using this value, that operation
       will fail if the value has,  in  the  meantime,  been
       used to create another row that is currently valid."
    ::= { diffServQueue 1 }


diffServQTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF DiffServQEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 84]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    DESCRIPTION
       "The Queue Table enumerates the individual queues."
    REFERENCE
        "[MODEL] section 7.1.1"
    ::= { diffServQueue 2 }


diffServQEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       DiffServQEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An entry in  the  Queue  Table  describes  a  single
       queue.  With each entry belonging to one and only one
       datapath."
    INDEX { diffServQId }
    ::= { diffServQTable 1 }


DiffServQEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServQId                      Unsigned32,
    diffServQNext                    RowPointer,
    diffServQSchdParam               RowPointer,
    diffServQStatus                  RowStatus
}


diffServQId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An index that enumerates the Queue entries. The  set
       of  such  identifiers spans the whole agent. Managers
       should obtain new values for  row  creation  in  this
       table by reading diffServQNextFree."





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 85]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    ::= { diffServQEntry 1 }


diffServQNext OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This selects the next diffserv  functional  datapath
       element  to  handle traffic for this data path.  This
       RowPointer must point to an instance of one of:
         diffServSchedulerEntry

       A value of zeroDotZero in this attribute indicates an
       incomplete  diffServQEntry instance.  An illegal con-
       figuration.

       If the row pointed to does not exist,  the  treatment
       is  as  if  this  attribute contains a value of zero-
       DotZero."
    ::= { diffServQEntry 2 }


diffServQSchdParam OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This   RowPointer    indicates    the    entry    in
       diffServSchdParamTable  the  scheduler, pointed to by
       diffServQNext, should use to service this queue.

       A value of zeroDotZero in this attribute indicates an
       incomplete  diffServQEntry instance.  An illegal con-





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 86]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


       figuration.

       If the row pointed to does not exist,  the  treatment
       is  as  if  this  attribute contains a value of zero-
       DotZero."
    ::= { diffServQEntry 3 }


diffServQStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The  RowStatus  variable  controls  the  activation,
       deactivation,  or  deletion  of a queue. Any writable
       variable may be modified whether the row is active or
       notInService."
    ::= { diffServQEntry 4 }


--
-- Scheduler Table
--

diffServScheduler      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMIBObjects 7 }

--
-- The Scheduler Table is used for representing packet schedulers:
-- it provides flexibility for multiple scheduling algorithms, each
-- servicing multiple queues, to be used on the same logical/physical
-- interface.
-- Notice the servicing parameters the scheduler uses is
-- specified by each of its upstream functional datapath elements,
-- most likely queues or schedulers.
-- The coordination and coherency between the servicing parameters
-- of the scheduler's upstream functional datapath elements must
-- be maintained for the scheduler to function correctly.
--
-- The diffServSchedulerSchdParam attribute is used for specifying
-- the servicing parameters for output of a scheduler when its
-- downstream functional datapath element is another scheduler.
-- This is used for building hierarchical queue/scheduler.
--



Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 87]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


-- More discussion of the scheduler functional datapath element
-- is in [MODEL] section 7.1.2.
--


diffServSchedulerNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This  object  yields  a  value  when  read  that  is
       currently  unused for a diffServSchedulerId instance.
       If a configuring system attempts to create a new  row
       in  the diffServSchedulerTable using this value, that
       operation will fail if the value has,  in  the  mean-
       time,  been  used  to  create  another  row  that  is
       currently valid."
    ::= { diffServScheduler 1 }


diffServSchedulerTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF DiffServSchedulerEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Scheduler Table  enumerates  packet  schedulers.
       Multiple scheduling algorithms can be used on a given
       datapath,  with  each  algorithm  described  by   one
       diffServSchedulerEntry."
    REFERENCE
        "[MODEL] section 7.1.2"
    ::= { diffServScheduler 2 }


diffServSchedulerEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       DiffServSchedulerEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An entry in the Scheduler Table describing a  single
       instance of a scheduling algorithm."
    INDEX { diffServSchedulerId }
    ::= { diffServSchedulerTable 1 }


DiffServSchedulerEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServSchedulerId                   Unsigned32,





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 88]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    diffServSchedulerNext                 RowPointer,
    diffServSchedulerMethod               INTEGER,
    diffServSchedulerSchdParam            RowPointer,
    diffServSchedulerStatus               RowStatus
}


diffServSchedulerId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An index that enumerates the Scheduler entries.  The
       set  of  such  identifiers  spans  the  whole  agent.
       Managers should obtain new values for row creation in
       this table by reading diffServSchedulerNextFree."
    ::= { diffServSchedulerEntry 1 }


diffServSchedulerNext OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This selects the next diffserv  functional  datapath
       element  to  handle traffic for this data path.  This
       RowPointer should point to an instance of one of:
         diffServSchedulerEntry
         diffServQEntry  As  indicated  by  [MODEL]  section
       7.1.4.

       This should point to  another  diffServSchedulerEntry
       for  implementation of multiple scheduler methods for
       the  same  datapath,  and   for   implementation   of
       hierarchical schedulers.


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 89]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


       A value of zeroDotZero in this attribute indicates no
       further Diffserv treatment is performed on traffic of
       this datapath.  The use of zeroDotZero is the  normal
       usage for the last functional datapath element.

       If the row pointed to does not exist,  the  treatment
       is  as  if  this  attribute contains a value of zero-
       DotZero."
    DEFVAL       { zeroDotZero }
    ::= { diffServSchedulerEntry 2 }


diffServSchedulerMethod OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       INTEGER {
                     other(1),        -- not listed here
                     priorityq(2),    -- Priority Queueing
                     wrr(3),          -- Weighted Round Robin
                     wfq(4),          -- Weighted Fair Queuing
                     wirr(5),         -- Weighted Interleaved Round Robin
                     bsp(6)           -- Bounded Strict Priority
                 }
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The scheduling algorithm used by this Scheduler.

       A value of priorityq(2) is used  to  indicate  strict
       priority queueing: only the diffServSchdParamPriority
       attributes  of  the  queues/schedulers  feeding  this
       scheduler  are  used when determining the next packet
       to schedule.

       A value  of  wrr(3)  indicates  weighted  round-robin
       scheduling.   Packets  are scheduled from each of the





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 90]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


       queues/schedulers feeding this scheduler according to
       all   of   the   parameters   of   their   respective
       diffServSchdParamEntry.

       A value of wfq(4) indicates  weighted  fair  queueing
       scheduling.   Packets  are scheduled from each of the
       queues/schedulers feeding this scheduler according to
       all   of   the   parameters   of   their   respective
       diffServSchdParamEntry.

       A value of  wirr(5)  indicates  weighted  interleaved
       roundrobin    queueing   scheduling.    Packets   are
       scheduled from each of the queues/schedulers  feeding
       this  scheduler  according  to  all the parameters of
       their respective diffServSchdParamEntry.

       A value of bsp(6) indicates bounded  strict  priority
       scheduling.   Packets  are scheduled from each of the
       queues/schedulers feeding this scheduler according to
       all    the    parameters    of    their    respective
       diffServSchdParamEntry."
    REFERENCE
        "[MODEL] section 7.1.2"
    ::= { diffServSchedulerEntry 3 }


diffServSchedulerSchdParam OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowPointer
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This   RowPointer    indicates    the    entry    in
       diffServSchdParamTable  the  higher  level scheduler,
       pointed to by diffServSchedulerNext,  should  use  to
       service the output of this scheduler.  This attribute
       is only used when there is more  than  one  level  of
       scheduler.   And should have the value of zeroDotZero
       when not used."
    DEFVAL      { zeroDotZero }
    ::= { diffServSchedulerEntry 4 }


diffServSchedulerStatus OBJECT-TYPE



Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 91]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    SYNTAX       RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The  RowStatus  variable  controls  the  activation,
       deactivation,  or  deletion  of a queue. Any writable
       variable may be modified whether the row is active or
       notInService."
    ::= { diffServSchedulerEntry 5 }


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 92]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


--
-- Scheduling Parameter Table
--
-- The scheduling parameters are separate from the Queue Entries
-- for reusability and for usage by both queues and schedulers,
-- and this follows the separation of datapath elements from
-- parameterization approach used throught out this MIB.
-- Usage of scheduling parameter table entry by schedulers allow
-- building of hierarchical scheduling.
--
-- The diffServSchdParamMaxRateAbs/Rel attributes are used to
-- construct non-work-conserving scheduler for the purpose of
-- traffic shaping.  These attributes limits the servicing of
-- the queue/scheduler, in affect, shaping the output of the
-- queue/scheduler, as described in [MODEL] section 7.2.
--


diffServSchdParamNextFree OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-only
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This  object  yields  a  value  when  read  that  is
       currently  unused for a diffServSchdParamId instance.
       If a configuring system attempts to create a new  row
       in  the diffServSchdParamTable using this value, that
       operation will fail if the value has,  in  the  mean-
       time,  been  used  to  create  another  row  that  is
       currently valid."
    ::= { diffServScheduler 3 }


diffServSchdParamTable OBJECT-TYPE





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 93]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    SYNTAX       SEQUENCE OF DiffServSchdParamEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Scheduling Parameter Table enumerates individual
       sets  of scheduling parameter that can be used/reused
       by Queues and Schedulers."
    ::= { diffServScheduler 4 }


diffServSchdParamEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       DiffServSchdParamEntry
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An entry in the Scheduling Parameter Table describes
       a  single  set  of  scheduling  parameter  for use by
       queues and schedulers.
       Notice multiple inter-mixed of  Queue  and  Scheduler
       entries can use the same Scheduler Parameter entry."
    INDEX { diffServSchdParamId }
    ::= { diffServSchdParamTable 1 }


DiffServSchdParamEntry ::= SEQUENCE  {
    diffServSchdParamId              Unsigned32,
    diffServSchdParamPriority        Unsigned32,
    diffServSchdParamMinRateAbs      Unsigned32,
    diffServSchdParamMinRateRel      Unsigned32,
    diffServSchdParamMaxRateAbs      Unsigned32,
    diffServSchdParamMaxRateRel      Unsigned32,
    diffServSchdParamStatus          RowStatus
}


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 94]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


diffServSchdParamId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   not-accessible
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "An index that  enumerates  the  Scheduler  Parameter
       entries.  The set of such identifiers spans the whole
       agent. Managers should  obtain  new  values  for  row
       creation  in this table by reading diffServSchdParam-
       NextFree."
    ::= { diffServSchdParamEntry 1 }


diffServSchdParamPriority OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The priority of this queue, to be used as a  parame-
       ter  to  the  next  scheduler element downstream from
       this one."
    ::= { diffServSchdParamEntry 2 }


diffServSchdParamMinRateAbs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    UNITS        "kilobits per second"
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The minimum absolute rate, in kilobits/sec,  that  a
       downstream  scheduler element should allocate to this
       queue.  If the value is zero, then  there  is  effec-
       tively  no  minimum  rate guarantee.  If the value is
       non-zero, the scheduler will assure the servicing  of
       this queue to at least this rate.



Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 95]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


       Note that this attribute's value is coupled  to  that
       of  diffServSchdParamMinRateRel:  changes to one will
       affect the value of the other. They are linked by the
       following equation:

         diffServSchdParamMinRateRel = diffServSchdParamMinRateAbs
                                       * 10,000,000/ifSpeed

       or, if appropriate:

         diffServSchdParamMinRateRel = diffServSchdParamMinRateAbs
                                       * 10 / ifHighSpeed"
    REFERENCE
        "ifSpeed, ifHighSpeed from [IFMIB]"
    ::= { diffServSchdParamEntry 3 }


diffServSchdParamMinRateRel OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The minimum rate that a downstream scheduler element
       should  allocate  to this queue, relative to the max-
       imum rate of the interface as reported by ifSpeed  or
       ifHighSpeed, in units of 1/10,000 of 1.  If the value
       is zero, then there is effectively  no  minimum  rate
       guarantee.   If  the value is non-zero, the scheduler
       will assure the servicing of this queue to  at  least
       this rate.

       Note that this attribute's value is coupled  to  that
       of  diffServSchdParamMinRateAbs:  changes to one will
       affect the value of the other. They are linked by the
       following equation:

         diffServSchdParamMinRateAbs = ifSpeed
                      * diffServSchdParamMinRateRel/10,000,000

       or, if appropriate:

         diffServSchdParamMinRateAbs = ifHighSpeed
                      * diffServSchdParamMinRateRel / 10"
    REFERENCE
        "ifSpeed, ifHighSpeed from [IFMIB]"
    ::= { diffServSchdParamEntry 4 }


diffServSchdParamMaxRateAbs OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    UNITS        "kilobits per second"





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 96]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The maximum rate in kilobits/sec that  a  downstream
       scheduler  element  should allocate to this queue. If
       the value is  zero,  then  there  is  effectively  no
       maximum  rate  limit  and  that  the scheduler should
       attempt to be work-conserving for this queue.  If the
       value  is non-zero, the scheduler will limit the ser-
       vicing of this queue to, at  most,  this  rate  in  a
       non-work-conserving manner.

       Note that this attribute's value is coupled  to  that
       of  diffServSchdParamMaxRateRel:  changes to one will
       affect the value of the other. They are linked by the
       following equation:

         diffServSchdParamMaxRateRel = diffServSchdParamMaxRateAbs
                                       * 10,000,000/ifSpeed

       or, if appropriate:

         diffServSchdParamMaxRateRel = diffServSchdParamMaxRateAbs
                                       * 10 / ifHighSpeed"
    REFERENCE
        "ifSpeed, ifHighSpeed from [IFMIB]"
    ::= { diffServSchdParamEntry 5 }


diffServSchdParamMaxRateRel OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       Unsigned32
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The maximum rate that a downstream scheduler element
       should  allocate  to this queue, relative to the max-





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 97]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


       imum rate of the interface as reported by ifSpeed  or
       ifHighSpeed, in units of 1/10,000 of 1.  If the value
       is zero, then there is effectively  no  maximum  rate
       limit  and  the  scheduler should attempt to be work-
       conserving for this queue.  If the value is non-zero,
       the  scheduler will limit the servicing of this queue
       to, at  most,  this  rate  in  a  non-work-conserving
       manner.

       Note that this attribute's value is coupled  to  that
       of  diffServSchdParamMaxRateAbs:  changes to one will
       affect the value of the other. They are linked by the
       following equation:

         diffServSchdParamMaxRateAbs = ifSpeed
                        * diffServSchdParamMaxRateRel/10,000,000

       or, if appropriate:

         diffServSchdParamMaxRateAbs = ifHighSpeed
                        * diffServSchdParamMaxRateRel / 10"
    REFERENCE
        "ifSpeed, ifHighSpeed from [IFMIB]"
    ::= { diffServSchdParamEntry 6 }


diffServSchdParamStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX       RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS   read-create
    STATUS       current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The  RowStatus  variable  controls  the  activation,
       deactivation,  or  deletion  of a queue. Any writable
       variable may be modified whether the row is active or
       notInService."
    ::= { diffServSchdParamEntry 7 }





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 98]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


--
-- MIB Compliance statements.
--


diffServMIBCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMIBConformance 1 }
diffServMIBGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { diffServMIBConformance 2 }


diffServMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "This MIB may be implemented as a read-only or  as  a
       read-create MIB. As a result, it may be used for mon-
       itoring or for configuration."
    MODULE -- This Module
    MANDATORY-GROUPS {
        diffServMIBDataPathGroup,
        diffServMIBClfrGroup,
        diffServMIBClfrElementGroup,
        diffServMIBSixTupleClfrGroup,
        diffServMIBActionGroup,
        diffServMIBAlgDropGroup,
        diffServMIBQGroup, diffServMIBSchedulerGroup,
        diffServMIBSchdParamGroup }


-- The groups:
--        diffServMIBCounterGroup
--        diffServMIBHCCounterGroup
--        diffServMIBVHCCounterGroup
--
-- are mutually exclusive; at most one of these groups is implemented
-- for a particular interface.  When any of these groups is implemented





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001           [Page 99]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


-- for a particular interface, then ifCounterDiscontinuityGroup from
-- [IFMIB]  must also be implemented for that interface.


-- note that the diffServMIBStaticGroup is
-- mandatory for implementations that implement a
-- read-write or read-create mode.


    GROUP diffServMIBCounterGroup
    DESCRIPTION
       "This group is mandatory for table objects indexed by
       ifIndex  for  which  the  value  of the corresponding
       instance  of  ifSpeed  is  less  than  or  equal   to
       20,000,000 bits/second."


    GROUP diffServMIBHCCounterGroup
    DESCRIPTION
       "This group is mandatory for table objects indexed by
       ifIndex  for  which  the  value  of the corresponding
       instance  of  ifSpeed  is  greater  than   20,000,000
       bits/second."


    GROUP diffServMIBVHCCounterGroup
    DESCRIPTION
       "This group is mandatory for table objects indexed by
       ifIndex  for  which  the  value  of the corresponding
       instance  of  ifSpeed  is  greater  than  650,000,000
       bits/second."


    GROUP diffServMIBMeterGroup





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 100]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    DESCRIPTION
       "This group is mandatory for devices  that  implement
       metering functions."


    GROUP diffServMIBTBMeterGroup
    DESCRIPTION
       "This group is mandatory for devices  that  implement
       token-bucket metering functions."


    GROUP diffServMIBDscpMarkActGroup
    DESCRIPTION
       "This group is mandatory for devices  that  implement
       DSCP-Marking functions."


    GROUP diffServMIBRandomDropGroup
    DESCRIPTION
       "This group is mandatory for devices  that  implement
       Random Drop functions."


    GROUP diffServMIBStaticGroup
    DESCRIPTION
       "This group is mandatory for devices that allow crea-
       tion  of  rows  in any of the writable tables of this
       MIB."


    OBJECT diffServClfrStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServClfrElementOrder
    MIN-ACCESS read-only



Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 101]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServClfrElementNext
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServClfrElementSpecific
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServClfrElementStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSixTupleClfrDstAddrType
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSixTupleClfrDstAddr
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSixTupleClfrDstAddrMask
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSixTupleClfrSrcAddrType
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSixTupleClfrSrcAddr





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 102]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSixTupleClfrSrcAddrMask
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSixTupleClfrDscp
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSixTupleClfrProtocol
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSixTupleClfrSrcL4PortMin
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSixTupleClfrSrcL4PortMax
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 103]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    OBJECT diffServSixTupleClfrDstL4PortMin
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSixTupleClfrDstL4PortMax
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSixTupleClfrStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServMeterSucceedNext
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServMeterFailNext
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServMeterSpecific
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 104]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    OBJECT diffServMeterStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServTBMeterType
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServTBMeterRate
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServTBMeterBurstSize
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServTBMeterInterval
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServTBMeterStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServActionNext
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 105]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    OBJECT diffServActionSpecific
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServActionType
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServActionStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServCountActStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServAlgDropType
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServAlgDropNext
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServAlgDropQMeasure
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServAlgDropQThreshold
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 106]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    OBJECT diffServAlgDropSpecific
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServAlgDropStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServRandomDropMinThreshBytes
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServRandomDropMinThreshPkts
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServRandomDropMaxThreshBytes
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServRandomDropMaxThreshPkts
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 107]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    OBJECT diffServRandomDropInvProbMax
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServRandomDropInvWeight
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServRandomDropSamplingRate
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServRandomDropStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServQNext
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServQSchdParam
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 108]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    OBJECT diffServQStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSchedulerNext
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSchedulerMethod
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSchedulerSchdParam
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSchedulerStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSchdParamPriority
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSchdParamMinRateAbs
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 109]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    OBJECT diffServSchdParamMinRateRel
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSchdParamMaxRateAbs
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSchdParamMaxRateRel
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    OBJECT diffServSchdParamStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
       "Write access is not required."


    ::= { diffServMIBCompliances 1 }


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 110]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


diffServMIBDataPathGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        diffServDataPathStart, diffServDataPathStatus
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Data Path Group defines  the  MIB  Objects  that
       describe a data path."
    ::= { diffServMIBGroups 1 }


diffServMIBClfrGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        diffServClfrStatus
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Classifier Group defines the  MIB  Objects  that
       describe a generic classifier."
    ::= { diffServMIBGroups 2 }


diffServMIBClfrElementGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        diffServClfrElementOrder, diffServClfrElementNext,
        diffServClfrElementSpecific, diffServClfrElementStatus
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Classifier Element Group defines the MIB Objects
       that  describe the classifier elements that make up a
       generic classifier."
    ::= { diffServMIBGroups 3 }


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 111]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


diffServMIBSixTupleClfrGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        diffServSixTupleClfrDstAddrType, diffServSixTupleClfrDstAddr,
        diffServSixTupleClfrDstAddrMask,
        diffServSixTupleClfrSrcAddrType, diffServSixTupleClfrSrcAddr,
        diffServSixTupleClfrSrcAddrMask,
        diffServSixTupleClfrDscp, diffServSixTupleClfrProtocol,
        diffServSixTupleClfrDstL4PortMin,
        diffServSixTupleClfrDstL4PortMax,
        diffServSixTupleClfrSrcL4PortMin,
        diffServSixTupleClfrSrcL4PortMax,
        diffServSixTupleClfrStatus
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The  Six-tuple  Classifier  Group  defines  the  MIB
       Objects that describe a classifier element for match-
       ing on 6 fields of an  IP  and  upper-layer  protocol
       header."
    ::= { diffServMIBGroups 4 }


diffServMIBMeterGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        diffServMeterSucceedNext, diffServMeterFailNext,
        diffServMeterSpecific, diffServMeterStatus
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Meter Group defines the objects used in describ-
       ing a generic meter element."
    ::= { diffServMIBGroups 5 }


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 112]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


diffServMIBTBMeterGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        diffServTBMeterType,
        diffServTBMeterRate, diffServTBMeterBurstSize,
        diffServTBMeterInterval, diffServTBMeterStatus
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Token-Bucket Meter  Group  defines  the  objects
       used in describing a token bucket meter element."
    ::= { diffServMIBGroups 6 }


diffServMIBActionGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        diffServActionNext, diffServActionSpecific,
        diffServActionType, diffServActionStatus
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The  Action  Group  defines  the  objects  used   in
       describing a generic action element."
    ::= { diffServMIBGroups 7 }


diffServMIBDscpMarkActGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        diffServDscpMarkActDscp, diffServDscpMarkActStatus
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The DSCP Mark Action Group defines the objects  used
       in describing a DSCP Marking Action element."
    ::= { diffServMIBGroups 8 }


diffServMIBCounterGroup OBJECT-GROUP


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 113]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    OBJECTS {
        diffServCountActOctets,
        diffServCountActPkts,
        diffServCountActDiscontTime,
        diffServCountActStatus,
        diffServAlgDropOctets,
        diffServAlgDropPkts
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A  collection  of  objects   providing   information
       specific to non-high speed (non-high speed interfaces
       transmit and receive at speeds less than or equal  to
       20,000,000   bits/second)   packet-oriented   network
       interfaces."
    ::= { diffServMIBGroups 9 }


diffServMIBHCCounterGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        diffServCountActOctets, diffServCountActHCOctets,
        diffServCountActPkts,
        diffServCountActDiscontTime,
        diffServCountActStatus,
        diffServAlgDropOctets, diffServAlgDropHCOctets,
        diffServAlgDropPkts
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "A  collection  of  objects   providing   information
       specific   to   high  speed  (high  speed  interfaces
       transmit  and  receive   at   speeds   greater   than
       20,000,000  but  less  than  or equals to 650,000,000
       bits/second) packet-oriented network interfaces."
    ::= { diffServMIBGroups 10 }


diffServMIBVHCCounterGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        diffServCountActOctets, diffServCountActHCOctets,
        diffServCountActPkts, diffServCountActHCPkts,
        diffServCountActDiscontTime,
        diffServCountActStatus,
        diffServAlgDropOctets, diffServAlgDropHCOctets,
        diffServAlgDropPkts, diffServAlgDropHCPkts
    }
    STATUS current





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 114]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    DESCRIPTION
       "A  collection  of  objects   providing   information
       specific  to  very-high speed (very-high speed inter-
       faces transmit and receive  at  speeds  greater  than
       650,000,000   bits/second)   packet-oriented  network
       interfaces."
    ::= { diffServMIBGroups 11 }


diffServMIBAlgDropGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        diffServAlgDropType, diffServAlgDropNext,
        diffServAlgDropQMeasure, diffServAlgDropQThreshold,
        diffServAlgDropSpecific, diffServAlgDropStatus
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Algorithmic Drop Group contains the objects that
       describe algorithmic dropper operation and configura-
       tion."
    ::= { diffServMIBGroups 12 }


diffServMIBRandomDropGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        diffServRandomDropMinThreshBytes,
        diffServRandomDropMinThreshPkts,
        diffServRandomDropMaxThreshBytes,
        diffServRandomDropMaxThreshPkts,
        diffServRandomDropInvProbMax,
        diffServRandomDropInvWeight,
        diffServRandomDropSamplingRate,
        diffServRandomDropStatus
    }





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 115]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Random Drop Group augments the Algorithmic Drop Group for
       random dropper operation and configuration."
    ::= { diffServMIBGroups 13 }


diffServMIBQGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        diffServQNext, diffServQSchdParam,
        diffServQStatus
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Queue Group contains the objects  that  describe
       an interface's queues."
    ::= { diffServMIBGroups 14 }


diffServMIBSchedulerGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        diffServSchedulerNext, diffServSchedulerMethod,
        diffServSchedulerSchdParam, diffServSchedulerStatus
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The  Scheduler  Group  contains  the  objects   that
       describe packet schedulers on interfaces."
    ::= { diffServMIBGroups 15 }


diffServMIBSchdParamGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        diffServSchdParamPriority,





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 116]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


        diffServSchdParamMinRateAbs, diffServSchdParamMinRateRel,
        diffServSchdParamMaxRateAbs, diffServSchdParamMaxRateRel,
        diffServSchdParamStatus
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Scheduler Parameter Group contains  the  objects
       that describe packet schedulers' parameters on inter-
       faces."
    ::= { diffServMIBGroups 16 }


diffServMIBStaticGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
        diffServClfrNextFree, diffServClfrElementNextFree,
        diffServSixTupleClfrNextFree,
        diffServMeterNextFree, diffServTBMeterNextFree,
        diffServActionNextFree, diffServDscpMarkActNextFree,
        diffServCountActNextFree,
        diffServAlgDropNextFree, diffServRandomDropNextFree,
        diffServQNextFree, diffServSchedulerNextFree,
        diffServSchdParamNextFree
    }
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
       "The Static Group contains  readable  scalar  objects
       used  in creating unique identifiers for classifiers,
       meters, actions and queues. These are required  when-
       ever  row creation operations on such tables are sup-
       ported."
    ::= { diffServMIBGroups 17 }


END









Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 117]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


9.  Acknowledgments

This MIB builds on all the work that has gone into the Informal
Management Model for Diffserv routers, DiffServ PIB, and DiffServ Policy
MIB (SNMPCONF WG).  It has been developed with the active involvement of
many people, but most notably Yoram Bernet, Steve Blake, Brian
Carpenter, Dave Durham, Jeremy Greene, Dan Grossman, Roch Guerin, Scott
Hahn, Keith McCloghrie, Bob Moore, Kathleen Nichols, Ping Pan, Nabil
Seddigh, Bert Wijnen, Victor Firoiu, John Seligson, Michael Fine, Walter
Weiss, Joel Halpern, and Harrie Hazewinkel.



10.  Security Considerations

It is clear that this MIB is potentially useful for configuration, and
anything that can be configured can be misconfigured, with potentially
disastrous effect.


At this writing, no security holes have been identified beyond those
that SNMP Security is itself intended to address. These relate primarily
to controlled access to sensitive information and the ability to
configure a device - or which might result from operator error, which is
beyond the scope of any security architecture.


There are a number of management objects defined in this MIB that have a
MAX-ACCESS clause of read-write and/or read-create. Such objects may be
considered sensitive or vulnerable in some network environments.  The
support for SET operations in a non-secure environment without proper
protection can have a negative effect on network operations. The use of
SNMP Version 3 is recommended over prior versions for configuration
control as its security model is improved.


There are a number of managed objects in this MIB that may contain
information that may be sensitive from a business perspective, in that
they may represent a customer's service contract or the filters that the
service provider chooses to apply to a customer's ingress or egress
traffic. There are no objects which are sensitive in their own right,
such as passwords or monetary amounts.


It may be important to control even GET access to these objects and
possibly to even encrypt the values of these object when sending them
over the network via SNMP. Not all versions of SNMP provide features for





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 118]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


such a secure environment.

SNMPv1 by itself is not a secure environment. Even if the network itself
is secure (for example by using IPSec), even then, there is no control
as to who on the secure network is allowed to access and GET/SET
(read/change/create/delete) the objects in this MIB.

It is recommended that the implementers consider the security features
as provided by the SNMPv3 framework. Specifically, the use of the User-
based Security Model [12] and the View-based Access Control Model [15]
is recommended.

It is then a customer/user responsibility to ensure that the SNMP entity
giving access to an instance of this MIB, is properly configured to give
access to the objects only to those principals (users) that have
legitimate rights to indeed GET or SET (change/create/delete) them.



11.  References

[1]  Harrington, D., Presuhn, R., and B. Wijnen, "An Architecture for
     Describing SNMP Management Frameworks", RFC 2571, Cabletron
     Systems, Inc., BMC Software, Inc., IBM T. J. Watson Research, April
     1999

[2]  Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Structure and Identification of
     Management Information for TCP/IP-based Internets", RFC 1155, STD
     16, Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems, May 1990

[3]  Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Concise MIB Definitions", RFC 1212,
     STD 16, Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems,
     March 1991

[4]  M. Rose, "A Convention for Defining Traps for use with the SNMP",
     RFC 1215, Performance Systems International, March 1991

[5]  McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J., Rose, M.,
     and S. Waldbusser, "Structure of Management Information Version 2
     (SMIv2)", RFC 2578, STD 58, Cisco Systems, SNMPinfo, TU
     Braunschweig, SNMP Research, First Virtual Holdings, International
     Network Services, April 1999

[6]  McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J., Rose, M.,
     and S. Waldbusser, "Textual Conventions for SMIv2", RFC 2579, STD
     58, Cisco Systems, SNMPinfo, TU Braunschweig, SNMP Research, First
     Virtual Holdings, International Network Services, April 1999





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 119]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


[7]  McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J., Rose, M.,
     and S. Waldbusser, "Conformance Statements for SMIv2", RFC 2580,
     STD 58, Cisco Systems, SNMPinfo, TU Braunschweig, SNMP Research,
     First Virtual Holdings, International Network Services, April 1999

[8]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin, "Simple Network
     Management Protocol", RFC 1157, STD 15, SNMP Research, Performance
     Systems International, Performance Systems International, MIT
     Laboratory for Computer Science, May 1990.

[9]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser,
     "Introduction to Community-based SNMPv2", RFC 1901, SNMP Research,
     Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.,
     International Network Services, January 1996.

[10] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Transport
     Mappings for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1906, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[11] Case, J., Harrington D., Presuhn R., and B. Wijnen, "Message
     Processing and Dispatching for the Simple Network Management
     Protocol (SNMP)", RFC 2572, SNMP Research, Inc., Cabletron Systems,
     Inc., BMC Software, Inc., IBM T. J. Watson Research, April 1999

[12] Blumenthal, U., and B. Wijnen, "User-based Security Model (USM) for
     version 3 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv3)", RFC
     2574, IBM T. J. Watson Research, April 1999

[13] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Protocol
     Operations for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[14] Levi, D., Meyer, P., and B. Stewart, "SNMPv3 Applications", RFC
     2573, SNMP Research, Inc., Secure Computing Corporation, Cisco
     Systems, April 1999

[15] Wijnen, B., Presuhn, R., and K. McCloghrie, "View-based Access
     Control Model (VACM) for the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMP)", RFC 2575, IBM T. J. Watson Research, BMC Software, Inc.,
     Cisco Systems, Inc., April 1999

[16] Case, J., Mundy, R., Partain, D., and B. Stewart, "Introduction to
     Version 3 of the Internet-standard Network Management Framework",





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 120]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


     RFC 2570, SNMP Research, Inc., TIS Labs at Network Associates,
     Inc., Ericsson, Cisco Systems, April 1999

[ACTQMGMT]
     V. Firoiu, M. Borden "A Study of Active Queue Management for
     Congestion Control", March 2000, In IEEE Infocom 2000,
     http://www.ieee-infocom.org/2000/papers/405.pdf

[AQMROUTER]
     V.Misra, W.Gong, D.Towsley "Fuid-based analysis of a network of AQM
     routers supporting TCP flows with an application to RED", In
     SIGCOMM 2000,
     http://www.acm.org/sigcomm/sigcomm2000/conf/paper/sigcomm2000-4-
     3.ps.gz

[AF-PHB]
     J. Heinanen, F. Baker, W. Weiss, J. Wroclawski, "Assured Forwarding
     PHB Group.", RFC 2597, June 1999.

[DSARCH]
     S. Blake, D. Black, M. Carlson, E. Davies, Z. Wang, W. Weiss, "An
     Architecture for Differentiated Service", RFC 2475, December 1998.

[DSFIELD]
     K. Nichols, S. Blake, F. Baker, D. Black, "Definition of the
     Differentiated Services Field (DS Field) in the IPv4 and IPv6
     Headers", RFC 2474, December 1998.

[DSPIB]
     M. Fine, K. McCloghrie, J. Seligson, K. Chan, S. Hahn, A. Smith,
     "Differentiated Services Policy Information Base", Internet Draft
     <draft-ietf-diffserv-pib-00.txt>, March 2000

[DSTERMS]
     D. Grossman, "New Terminology for Diffserv", Internet Draft
     <draft-ietf-diffserv-new-terms-02.txt>, November 1999.

[EF-PHB]
     V. Jacobson, K. Nichols, K. Poduri, "An Expedited Forwarding PHB."
     RFC 2598, June 1999.

[IFMIB]
     K. McCloghrie, F. Kastenholz, "The Interfaces Group MIB using
     SMIv2", RFC 2233, November 1997.

[INETADDRESS]
     Daniele, M., Haberman, B., Routhier, S., Schoenwaelder, J.,





Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 121]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


     "Textual Conventions for Internet Network Addresses.", RFC 2851,
     June 2000.

[INTSERVMIB]
     F. Baker, J. Krawczyk, A. Sastry, "Integrated Services Management
     Information Base using SMIv2", RFC 2213, September 1997.

[MODEL]
     Y. Bernet, S. Blake, A. Smith, D. Grossman, "An Informal Management
     Model for Diffserv Routers", Internet Draft <draft-ietf-diffserv-
     model-04.txt>, July 2000.

[POLTERM]
     F. Reichmeyer,  D. Grossman, J. Strassner, M. Condell, "A Common
     Terminology for Policy Management", Internet Draft <draft-
     reichmeyer-polterm-terminology-00.txt>, March 2000

[QUEUEMGMT]
     B. Braden et al., "Recommendations on Queue Management and
     Congestion Avoidance in the Internet", RFC 2309, April 1998.

[RED93]
     "Random Early Detection", 1993.



12.  Authors' Addresses

     Fred Baker
     Cisco Systems
     519 Lado Drive
     Santa Barbara, California 93111
     fred@cisco.com


     Kwok Ho Chan
     Nortel Networks
     600 Technology Park Drive
     Billerica, MA 01821
     khchan@nortelnetworks.com


     Andrew Smith
     ah_smith@pacbell.net


Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 122]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


Table of Contents

1 The SNMP Management Framework ...................................    2
2 Introduction ....................................................    4
2.1 Relationship to the Diffserv Informal Management Model ........    4
2.2 Relationship to other MIBs and Policy Management ..............    5
2.3 MIB Overview ..................................................    5
3 Structure of this MIB ...........................................    6
3.1 DiffServ Data Paths ...........................................    7
3.1.1 Data Path Table .............................................    7
3.2 Classifiers ...................................................    8
3.2.1 Classifier Table ............................................    9
3.2.2 Classifier Element Table ....................................    9
3.2.3 Filter Table - IP Six-Tuple Classifier Table ................    9
3.3 Meters ........................................................    9
3.3.1 Meter Table .................................................   10
3.3.2 Token-Bucket Meter Table ....................................   10
3.4 Actions .......................................................   10
3.4.1 DSCP Mark Action Table ......................................   11
3.4.2 Count Action Table ..........................................   11
3.4.3 Absolute Drop Action ........................................   11
3.5 Queueing Elements .............................................   11
3.5.1 Algorithmic Dropper Table ...................................   11
3.5.2 Random Dropper Table ........................................   13
3.5.3 Queues and Schedulers .......................................   14
3.5.4 Example of Algorithmic Droppers, Queues and Schedulers ......   16
4 MIB Usage Example ...............................................   16
4.1 Data Path Example .............................................   17
4.2 Data Path and Classifier Example Discussion ...................   17
4.3 Meter and Action Example Discussion ...........................   20
4.4 Queue and Scheduler Example Discussion ........................   21
5 Conventions used in this MIB ....................................   21
5.1 The use of RowPointer .........................................   21
5.2 Conceptual row creation and deletion ..........................   22
6 Editorial information ...........................................   23
6.1 Open Issues resolved in previous drafts .......................   23
6.2 Open Issues resolved in this draft ............................   25
6.3 Still Open Issues .............................................   26
7 MIB Outline .....................................................   27
8 MIB Definition ..................................................   33
9 Acknowledgments .................................................  118
10 Security Considerations ........................................  118
11 References .....................................................  119
12 Authors' Addresses .............................................  122






Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 123]




Internet Draft        Differentiated Services MIB          November 2000


13.  Full Copyright


   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2000). All Rights Reserved.


   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
   or assist in its implmentation may be prepared, copied, published and
   distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
   provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
   included on all such copies and derivative works. However, this
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
   developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
   copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be
   followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than
   English.


   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
   revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.


   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
   TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
   BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
   HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
   MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.





















Baker, Chan, Smith         Expires June 2001          [Page 124]

