

Internet Draft           Introduction to SNMPv2                 May 1995


                    Introduction to Version 2 of the
             Internet-standard Network Management Framework

                              31 May 1995                                 |

                   draft-ietf-snmpv2-intro-ds-02.txt                      |


                            Jeffrey D. Case
                          SNMP Research, Inc.
                             case@snmp.com

                            Keith McCloghrie
                          Cisco Systems, Inc.
                             kzm@cisco.com

                            Marshall T. Rose
                      Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.
                         mrose@dbc.mtview.ca.us

                           Steven Waldbusser
                       Carnegie Mellon University
                           waldbusser@cmu.edu






Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
``1id-abstracts.txt'' listing contained in the Internet- Drafts Shadow
Directories on ds.internic.net (US East Coast), nic.nordu.net (Europe),
ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast), or munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim).





Expires November 1995                                           [Page 1]





Internet Draft           Introduction to SNMPv2                 May 1995


1.  Introduction

The purpose of this document is to provide an overview of version 2 of
the Internet-standard Network Management Framework, termed the SNMP
version 2 framework (SNMPv2).  This framework is derived from the
original Internet-standard Network Management Framework (SNMPv1), which
consists of these three documents:

     RFC 1155 [1] which defines the Structure of Management Information
     (SMI), the mechanisms used for describing and naming objects for
     the purpose of management.

     RFC 1212 [2] which defines a more concise description mechanism,
     which is wholly consistent with the SMI.

     RFC 1157 [3] which defines the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMP), the protocol used for network access to managed objects.

For information on coexistence between SNMPv1 and SNMPv2, consult [4].































Expires November 1995                                           [Page 2]





Internet Draft           Introduction to SNMPv2                 May 1995


2.  Components of the SNMPv2 Framework                                    -

A management system contains: several (potentially many) nodes, each
with a processing entity, termed an agent, which has access to
management instrumentation; at least one management station; and, a
management protocol, used to convey management information between the
agents and management stations.  Operations of the protocol are carried
out under an administrative framework which defines authentication,
authorization, access control, and privacy policies.

Management stations execute management applications which monitor and
control managed elements.  Managed elements are devices such as hosts,
routers, terminal servers, etc., which are monitored and controlled via
access to their management information.


2.1.  Structure of Management Information

Management information is viewed as a collection of managed objects,
residing in a virtual information store, termed the Management
Information Base (MIB).  Collections of related objects are defined in
MIB modules.  These modules are written using a subset of OSI's Abstract
Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) [5].  It is the purpose of the Structure of
Management Information for SNMPv2 document [6] to define that subset.

The SMI is divided into three parts: module definitions, object
definitions, and, trap definitions.

(1)  Module definitions are used when describing information modules.
     An ASN.1 macro, MODULE-IDENTITY, is used to concisely convey the
     semantics of an information module.

(2)  Object definitions are used when describing managed objects.  An
     ASN.1 macro, OBJECT-TYPE, is used to concisely convey the syntax
     and semantics of a managed object.

(3)  Notification definitions are used when describing unsolicited
     transmissions of management information.  An ASN.1 macro,
     NOTIFICATION-TYPE, is used to concisely convey the syntax and
     semantics of a notification.










Expires November 1995                                           [Page 3]





Internet Draft           Introduction to SNMPv2                 May 1995


2.2.  Textual Conventions

When designing a MIB module, it is often useful to define new types
similar to those defined in the SMI.  In comparison to a type defined in
the SMI, each of these new types has a different name, a similar syntax,
but a more precise semantics.  These newly defined types are termed
textual conventions, and are used for the convenience of humans reading
the MIB module.  It is the purpose of the Textual Conventions for SNMPv2
document [7] to define the initial set of textual conventions available
to all MIB modules.

Objects defined using a textual convention are always encoded by means
of the rules that define their primitive type.  However, textual
conventions often have special semantics associated with them.  As such,
an ASN.1 macro, TEXTUAL-CONVENTION, is used to concisely convey the
syntax and semantics of a textual convention.


2.3.  Protocol Operations

The management protocol provides for the exchange of messages which
convey management information between the agents and the management
stations.  The form of these messages is a message "wrapper" which
encapsulates a Protocol Data Unit (PDU).  The form and meaning of the
"wrapper" is determined by an administrative framework which defines
both authentication and authorization policies.

It is the purpose of the Protocol Operations for SNMPv2 document [8] to
define the operations of the protocol with respect to the sending and
receiving of the PDUs.


2.4.  Transport Mappings

The management protocol, version 2 of the Simple Network Management
Protocol, may be used over a variety of protocol suites.  It is the
purpose of the Transport Mappings for SNMPv2 document [9] to define how
the SNMPv2 maps onto an initial set of transport domains.  Other
mappings may be defined in the future.

Although several mappings are defined, the mapping onto UDP is the
preferred mapping.  As such, to provide for the greatest level of
interoperability, systems which choose to deploy other mappings should
also provide for proxy service to the UDP mapping.






Expires November 1995                                           [Page 4]





Internet Draft           Introduction to SNMPv2                 May 1995


2.5.  Protocol Instrumentation

It is the purpose of the Management Information Base for SNMPv2 document
[10] to define managed objects which describe the behavior of a SNMPv2
entity.  The Manager-to-Manager MIB document [11] defines an initial set
of managed objects which describe the behavior of a SNMPv2 entity which
acts in a manager role.  It is expected that extensions to this MIB will
be defined in the future.


2.6.  Administrative Framework

It is the purpose of the Administrative Infrastructure for SNMPv2
document [12] to define the behavior of a SNMPv2 party - a conceptual,
virtual execution context whose operation is restricted (for security or
other purposes) to an administratively defined subset of all possible
operations of a particular SNMPv2 entity.

Associated with each SNMPv2 party is a single authentication protocol
and a single privacy protocol.  It is the purpose of the Security
Protocols for SNMPv2 document [13] to define those protocols.

The Party MIB for SNMPv2 document [14] defines managed objects which
correspond to the properties associated with a SNMPv2 party.


2.7.  Conformance Statements

It may be useful to define the acceptable lower-bounds of
implementation, along with the actual level of implementation achieved.
It is the purpose of the Conformance Statements for SNMPv2 document [15]
to define the notation used for these purposes.  There are two kinds of
notations:

(1)  Compliance statements are used when describing requirements for
     agents with respect to object definitions.  An ASN.1 macro,
     MODULE-COMPLIANCE, is used to concisely convey such requirements.

(2)  Capability statements are used when describing capabilities of
     agents with respect to object definitions.  An ASN.1 macro, AGENT-
     CAPABILITIES, is used to concisely convey such capabilities.

Finally, collections of related objects are grouped together to form a
unit of conformance.  An ASN.1 macro, OBJECT-GROUP, is used to concisely
convey the syntax and semantics of a group.





Expires November 1995                                           [Page 5]





Internet Draft           Introduction to SNMPv2                 May 1995


2.8.  Configuration Models

The infrastructure defined in [12] is capable of realizing effective
network management in a variety of configurations and environments.  It
is the purpose of the Simplified Configuration Model for SNMPv2 document
[16] and the Basic Configuration Model for SNMPv2 document [17] to
define two configuration strategies, which may be independently deployed
by an administration.










































Expires November 1995                                           [Page 6]





Internet Draft           Introduction to SNMPv2                 May 1995


3.  Acknowledgements

The authors wish to acknowledge the contributions of the SNMPv2 Working
Group in general.  In particular, the following individuals

     Dave Arneson (Cabletron),
     Uri Blumenthal (IBM),
     Doug Book (Chipcom),
     Maria Greene (Ascom Timeplex),
     Deirdre Kostik (Bellcore),
     Dave Harrington (Cabletron),
     Jeff Johnson (Cisco Systems),
     Brian O'Keefe (Hewlett Packard),
     Dave Perkins (Bay Networks),
     Randy Presuhn (Peer Networks),
     Shawn Routhier (Epilogue),
     Bob Stewart (Cisco Systems),
     Kaj Tesink (Bellcore).

deserve special thanks for their contributions.


4.  References

[1]  Rose, M., and McCloghrie, K., "Structure and Identification of
     Management Information for TCP/IP-based internets", STD 16, RFC
     1155, May 1990.

[2]  Rose, M., and McCloghrie, K., "Concise MIB Definitions", STD 16,
     RFC 1212, March 1991.

[3]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., Davin, J., "Simple Network
     Management Protocol", STD 15, RFC 1157, SNMP Research, Performance
     Systems International, MIT Laboratory for Computer Science, May
     1990.

[4]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S.,
     "Coexistence between Version 1 and Version 2 of the Internet-
     standard Network Management Framework", Internet Draft, SNMP
     Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.,
     Carnegie Mellon University, May 1995.                                |

[5]  Information processing systems - Open Systems Interconnection -
     Specification of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1),
     International Organization for Standardization.  International





Expires November 1995                                           [Page 7]





Internet Draft           Introduction to SNMPv2                 May 1995


     Standard 8824, (December, 1987).

[6]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Structure
     of Management Information for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", Internet Draft, SNMP Research, Inc.,
     Cisco Systems, Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., Carnegie Mellon
     University, May 1995.                                                |

[7]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Textual
     Conventions for Version 2 of the the Simple Network Management
     Protocol (SNMPv2)", Internet Draft, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco
     Systems, Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., Carnegie Mellon University,   |
     May 1995.                                                            |

[8]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Protocol
     Operations for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", Internet Draft, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., Carnegie Mellon University, May 1995.  |

[9]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Transport
     Mappings for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", Internet Draft, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., Carnegie Mellon University, May 1995.  |

[10] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Management
     Information Base for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management
     Protocol (SNMPv2)", Internet Draft, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco
     Systems, Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., Carnegie Mellon University,   |
     May 1995.                                                            |

[11] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Manager-
     to-Manager Management Information Base", Internet Draft, SNMP
     Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.,
     Carnegie Mellon University, May 1995.                                |

[12] Case, J., Galvin, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S.,
     "Administrative Infrastructure for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", Internet Draft, SNMP Research, Inc.,
     Trusted Information Systems, Cisco Systems, Dover Beach Consulting,
     Inc., Carnegie Mellon University, May 1995.                          |

[13] Case, J., Galvin, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S.,
     "Security Protocols for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management
     Protocol (SNMPv2)", Internet Draft, SNMP Research, Inc., Trusted
     Information Systems, Cisco Systems, Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.,





Expires November 1995                                           [Page 8]





Internet Draft           Introduction to SNMPv2                 May 1995


     Carnegie Mellon University, May 1995.                                |

[14] Case, J., Galvin, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S.,
     "Party MIB for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", Internet Draft, SNMP Research, Inc., Trusted Information
     Systems, Cisco Systems, Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., Carnegie
     Mellon University, May 1995.                                         |

[15] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S.,
     "Conformance Statements for Version 2 of the the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", Internet Draft, SNMP Research, Inc.,
     Cisco Systems, Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., Carnegie Mellon
     University, May 1995.                                                |

[16] Waldbusser, S., Case, J., McCloghrie, K., and Rose, M., "Simplified
     Configuration Model for Version 2 of the the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", Internet Draft, SNMP Research, Inc.,
     Cisco Systems, Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., Carnegie Mellon
     University, May 1995.                                                |

[17] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Basic
     Configuration Model for Version 2 of the the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", Internet Draft, SNMP Research, Inc.,
     Cisco Systems, Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., Carnegie Mellon
     University, May 1995.                                                |

























Expires November 1995                                           [Page 9]





Internet Draft           Introduction to SNMPv2                 May 1995


5.  Security Considerations

Security issues are not discussed in this memo.


6.  Authors' Addresses

     Jeffrey D. Case
     SNMP Research, Inc.
     3001 Kimberlin Heights Rd.
     Knoxville, TN  37920-9716
     US

     Phone: +1 615 573 1434
     Email: case@snmp.com


     Keith McCloghrie
     Cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive,
     San Jose CA 95134-1706.

     Phone: +1 408 526 5260
     Email: kzm@cisco.com


     Marshall T. Rose
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.
     420 Whisman Court
     Mountain View, CA  94043-2186
     US

     Phone: +1 415 968 1052
     Email: mrose@dbc.mtview.ca.us

     Steven Waldbusser
     Carnegie Mellon University
     5000 Forbes Ave
     Pittsburgh, PA  15213
     US

     Phone: +1 412 268 6628
     Email: waldbusser@cmu.edu







Expires November 1995                                          [Page 10]





Internet Draft           Introduction to SNMPv2                 May 1995


Table of Contents


1 Introduction ....................................................    2
2 Components of the SNMPv2 Framework ..............................    3
2.1 Structure of Management Information ...........................    3
2.2 Textual Conventions ...........................................    4
2.3 Protocol Operations ...........................................    4
2.4 Transport Mappings ............................................    4
2.5 Protocol Instrumentation ......................................    5
2.6 Administrative Framework ......................................    5
2.7 Conformance Statements ........................................    5
2.8 Configuration Models ..........................................    6
3 Acknowledgements ................................................    7
4 References ......................................................    7
5 Security Considerations .........................................   10
6 Authors' Addresses ..............................................   10

































Expires November 1995                                          [Page 11]

