

Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


                  Remote Network Monitoring
                 Management Information Base
           for High Capacity and Switched Networks
              <draft-ietf-rmonmib-hcrmon-00.txt>

                       Febuary 25, 1997



                      Steven Waldbusser

                      waldbusser@ins.com






1.  Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are
working documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force
(IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other
groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
months.  Internet-Drafts may be updated, replaced, or
obsoleted by other documents at any time.  It is not
appropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material or to
cite them other than as a ``working draft'' or ``work in
progress.''

To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please
check the 1id-abstracts.txt listing contained in the Internet-
Drafts Shadow Directories on ds.internic.net, nic.nordu.net,
venera.isi.edu, or munnari.oz.au.


2.  Abstract

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management
Information Base (MIB) for use with network management
protocols in TCP/IP-based internets.  In particular, it
defines objects for managing remote network monitoring





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997           [Page 1]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


devices.

This memo does not specify a standard for the Internet
community.














































Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997           [Page 2]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


3.  The Network Management Framework

The Internet-standard Network Management Framework consists of
three components.  They are:

RFC 1902[1] which defines the SMI, the mechanisms used for
describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.

RFC 1213[3] which defines MIB-II, the core set of managed
objects for the Internet suite of protocols.

RFC 1905[4] which defines the SNMP, the protocol used for
network access to managed objects.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the
purpose of experimentation and evaluation.

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store,
termed the Management Information Base or MIB.  Within a given
MIB module, objects are defined using the SMI's OBJECT-TYPE
macro.  At a minimum, each object has a name, a syntax, an
access-level, and an implementation-status.

The name is an object identifier, an administratively assigned
name, which specifies an object type.  The object type
together with an object instance serves to uniquely identify a
specific instantiation of the object.  For human convenience,
we often use a textual string, termed the object descriptor,
to also refer to the object type.

The syntax of an object type defines the abstract data
structure corresponding to that object type.  The ASN.1[6]
language is used for this purpose.  However, RFC 1902
purposely restricts the ASN.1 constructs which may be used.
These restrictions are explicitly made for simplicity.

The access-level of an object type defines whether it makes
"protocol sense" to read and/or write the value of an instance
of the object type.  (This access-level is independent of any
administrative authorization policy.)

The implementation-status of an object type indicates whether
the object is mandatory, optional, obsolete, or deprecated.







Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997           [Page 3]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


4.  Overview

This document continues the architecture created in the RMON
MIB [RFC 1757] by supporting high speed networks and network
switches.

Remote network monitoring devices, often called monitors or
probes, are instruments that exist for the purpose of managing
a network.  Often these remote probes are stand-alone devices
and devote significant internal resources for the sole purpose
of managing a network.  An organization may employ many of
these devices, one per network segment, to manage its
internet.  In addition, these devices may be used for a
network management service provider to access a client
network, often geographically remote.

The objects defined in this document are intended as an
interface between an RMON agent and an RMON management
application and are not intended for direct manipulation by
humans.  While some users may tolerate the direct display of
some of these objects, few will tolerate the complexity of
manually manipulating objects to accomplish row creation.
These functions should be handled by the management
application.


4.1.  Remote Network Management Goals

    o Offline Operation
        There are sometimes conditions when a management
        station will not be in constant contact with its
        remote monitoring devices.  This is sometimes by
        design in an attempt to lower communications costs
        (especially when communicating over a WAN or
        dialup link), or by accident as network failures
        affect the communications between the management
        station and the probe.

        For this reason, this MIB allows a probe to be
        configured to perform diagnostics and to collect
        statistics continuously, even when communication with
        the management station may not be possible or
        efficient.  The probe may then attempt to notify
        the management station when an exceptional condition
        occurs.  Thus, even in circumstances where





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997           [Page 4]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


        communication between management station and probe is
        not continuous, fault, performance, and configuration
        information may be continuously accumulated and
        communicated to the management station conveniently
        and efficiently.

    o Proactive Monitoring
        Given the resources available on the monitor, it
        is potentially helpful for it continuously to run
        diagnostics and to log network performance.  The
        monitor is always available at the onset of any
        failure.  It can notify the management station of the
        failure and can store historical statistical
        information about the failure.  This historical
        information can be played back by the management
        station in an attempt to perform further diagnosis
        into the cause of the problem.

    o Problem Detection and Reporting
        The monitor can be configured to recognize
        conditions, most notably error conditions, and
        continuously to check for them.  When one of these
        conditions occurs, the event may be logged, and
        management stations may be notified in a number of
        ways.

    o Value Added Data
        Because a remote monitoring device represents a
        network resource dedicated exclusively to network
        management functions, and because it is located
        directly on the monitored portion of the network, the
        remote network monitoring device has the opportunity
        to add significant value to the data it collects.
        For instance, by highlighting those hosts on the
        network that generate the most traffic or errors, the
        probe can give the management station precisely the
        information it needs to solve a class of problems.

    o Multiple Managers
        An organization may have multiple management stations
        for different units of the organization, for different
        functions (e.g. engineering and operations), and in an
        attempt to provide disaster recovery.  Because
        environments with multiple management stations are
        common, the remote network monitoring device has to





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997           [Page 5]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


        deal with more than own management station,
        potentially using its resources concurrently.


4.2.  Structure of MIB

The objects are arranged into the following groups:

        - etherStatsHighCapacityGroup

        - hostHighCapacityGroup

        - matrixHighCapacityGroup

        - protocolDistributionHighCapacityGroup

        - nlHostHighCapacityGroup

        - nlMatrixHighCapacityGroup

        - alHostHighCapacityGroup

        - alMatrixHighCapacityGroup

These groups are the basic units of conformance.  If a remote
monitoring device implements a group, then it must implement
all objects in that group.  For example, a managed agent that
implements the network layer matrix group must implement the
nlMatrixiHighCapacitySDTable and the
nlMatrixHighCapacityDSTable.

Implementations of this MIB must also implement the system and
interfaces group of MIB-II [3].  MIB-II may also mandate the
implementation of additional groups.

These groups are defined to provide a means of assigning
object identifiers, and to provide a method for managed agents
to know which objects they must implement.












Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997           [Page 6]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


5.  Control of Remote Network Monitoring Devices

Due to the complex nature of the available functions in these
devices, the functions often need user configuration.  In many
cases, the function requires parameters to be set up for a
data collection operation.  The operation can proceed only
after these parameters are fully set up.

Many functional groups in this MIB have one or more tables in
which to set up control parameters, and one or more data
tables in which to place the results of the operation.  The
control tables are typically read/write in nature, while the
data tables are typically read/only.  Because the parameters
in the control table often describe resulting data in the data
table, many of the parameters can be modified only when the
control entry is not active.  Thus, the method for modifying
these parameters is to de-activate the entry, perform the SNMP
Set operations to modify the entry, and then re-activate the
entry.  Deleting the control entry causes the deletion of any
associated data entries, which also gives a convenient method
for reclaiming the resources used by the associated data.

Some objects in this MIB provide a mechanism to execute an
action on the remote monitoring device.  These objects may
execute an action as a result of a change in the state of the
object.  For those objects in this MIB, a request to set an
object to the same value as it currently holds would thus
cause no action to occur.

To facilitate control by multiple managers, resources have to
be shared among the managers.  These resources are typically
the memory and computation resources that a function requires.


5.1.  Resource Sharing Among Multiple Management Stations

When multiple management stations wish to use functions that
compete for a finite amount of resources on a device, a method
to facilitate this sharing of resources is required.
Potential conflicts include:

    o Two management stations wish to simultaneously use
      resources that together would exceed the capability of
      the device.
    o A management station uses a significant amount of





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997           [Page 7]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


      resources for a long period of time.
    o A management station uses resources and then crashes,
      forgetting to free the resources so others may
      use them.

The OwnerString mechanism is provided for each management
station initiated function in this MIB to avoid these
conflicts and to help resolve them when they occur.  Each
function has a label identifying the initiator (owner) of the
function.  This label is set by the initiator to provide for
the following possibilities:

    o A management station may recognize resources it owns
      and no longer needs.
    o A network operator can find the management station that
      owns the resource and negotiate for it to be freed.
    o A network operator may decide to unilaterally free
      resources another network operator has reserved.
    o Upon initialization, a management station may recognize
      resources it had reserved in the past.  With this
      information it may free the resources if it no longer
      needs them.

Management stations and probes should support any format of
the owner string dictated by the local policy of the
organization.  It is suggested that this name contain one or
more of the following: IP address, management station name,
network manager's name, location, or phone number.  This
information will help users to share the resources more
effectively.

There is often default functionality that the device or the
administrator of the probe (often the network administrator)
wishes to set up.  The resources associated with this
functionality are then owned by the device itself or by the
network administrator, and are intended to be long-lived.  In
this case, the device or the administrator will set the
relevant owner object to a string starting with 'monitor'.
Indiscriminate modification of the monitor-owned configuration
by network management stations is discouraged.  In fact, a
network management station should only modify these objects
under the direction of the administrator of the probe.

Resources on a probe are scarce and are typically allocated
when control rows are created by an application.  Since many





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997           [Page 8]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


applications may be using a probe simultaneously,
indiscriminate allocation of resources to particular
applications is very likely to cause resource shortages in the
probe.

When a network management station wishes to utilize a function
in a monitor, it is encouraged to first scan the control table
of that function to find an instance with similar parameters
to share.  This is especially true for those instances owned
by the monitor, which can be assumed to change infrequently.
If a management station decides to share an instance owned by
another management station, it should understand that the
management station that owns the instance may indiscriminately
modify or delete it.

It should be noted that a management application should have
the most trust in a monitor-owned row because it should be
changed very infrequently.  A row owned by the management
application is less long-lived because a network administrator
is more likely to re-assign resources from a row that is in
use by one user than from a monitor-owned row that is
potentially in use by many users.  A row owned by another
application would be even less long-lived because the other
application may delete or modify that row completely at its
discretion.


5.2.  Row Addition Among Multiple Management Stations

The addition of new rows is achieved using the RowStatus
method described in RFC 1903 [2].  In this MIB, rows are often
added to a table in order to configure a function.  This
configuration usually involves parameters that control the
operation of the function.  The agent must check these
parameters to make sure they are appropriate given
restrictions defined in this MIB as well as any implementation
specific restrictions such as lack of resources.  The agent
implementor may be confused as to when to check these
parameters and when to signal to the management station that
the parameters are invalid.  There are two opportunities:

    o When the management station sets each parameter object.

    o When the management station sets the row status object
      to active.





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997           [Page 9]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


If the latter is chosen, it would be unclear to the management
station which of the several parameters was invalid and caused
the badValue error to be emitted.  Thus, wherever possible,
the implementor should choose the former as it will provide
more information to the management station.

A problem can arise when multiple management stations attempt
to set configuration information simultaneously using SNMP.
When this involves the addition of a new conceptual row in the
same control table, the managers may collide, attempting to
create the same entry.  To guard against these collisions,
each such control entry contains a status object with special
semantics that help to arbitrate among the managers.  If an
attempt is made with the row addition mechanism to create such
a status object and that object already exists, an error is
returned.  When more than one manager simultaneously attempts
to create the same conceptual row, only the first will
succeed.  The others will receive an error.

In the RMON MIB [RFC 1757], the EntryStatus textual convention
was introduced to provide this mutual exclusion function.
Since then, this function was added to the SNMP framework as
the RowStatus textual convention.  The RowStatus textual
convention is used for the definition of all new tables.

When a manager wishes to create a new control entry, it needs
to choose an index for that row.  It may choose this index in
a variety of ways, hopefully minimizing the chances that the
index is in use by another manager.  If the index is in use,
the mechanism mentioned previously will guard against
collisions.  Examples of schemes to choose index values
include random selection or scanning the control table looking
for the first unused index.  Because index values may be any
valid value in the range and they are chosen by the manager,
the agent must allow a row to be created with any unused index
value if it has the resources to create a new row.

Some tables in this MIB reference other tables within this
MIB.  When creating or deleting entries in these tables, it is
generally allowable for dangling references to exist.  There
is no defined order for creating or deleting entries in these
tables.








Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 10]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


6.  Conventions

The following conventions are used throughout the RMON MIB and
its companion documents.

Good Packets

Good packets are error-free packets that have a valid frame
length.  For example, on Ethernet, good packets are error-free
packets that are between 64 octets long and 1518 octets long.
They follow the form defined in IEEE 802.3 section 3.2.all.

Bad Packets

Bad packets are packets that have proper framing and are
therefore recognized as packets, but contain errors within the
packet or have an invalid length.  For example, on Ethernet,
bad packets have a valid preamble and SFD, but have a bad CRC,
or are either shorter than 64 octets or longer than 1518
octets.


7.  Definitions

HC-RMON-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN
IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, Counter32, Integer32,
        Gauge32, TimeTicks, Counter64 FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    TEXTUAL-CONVENTION, RowStatus, DisplayString, TimeStamp
                                                 FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP FROM SNMPv2-CONF
    mib-2, ifIndex                  FROM RFC1213-MIB
    OwnerString, statistics, hosts, matrix, etherStatsEntry,
    hostEntry, hostTimeEntry,
    matrixSDEntry, matrixDSEntry FROM RMON-MIB
    protocolDist, protocolDistStatsEntry, nlHost, nlHostEntry,
    nlMatrix, nlMatrixSDEntry, nlMatrixDSEntry,
    alHost, alHostEntry, alMatrix, alMatrixSDEntry,
    alMatrixDSEntry, rmonConformance
                                    FROM RMON2-MIB;
--  Remote Network Monitoring MIB

hcRMON MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9702120000Z"
    ORGANIZATION "IETF RMON MIB Working Group"





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 11]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


    CONTACT-INFO
        "Steve Waldbusser
        Postal: International Network Services
        1213 Innsbruck Dr.
        Sunnyvale, CA 94089
        Phone:  +1 408 542 0251
        Email:  waldbusser@ins.com"
    DESCRIPTION
        "The MIB module for managing remote monitoring
        device implementations. This MIB module
        augments the original RMON MIB as specified in
        RFC 1757 and RFC 1513 and RMON2 MIB as specified in
        RFC 2021."
    ::= { rmonConformance 3 }

-- { rmon 1 } through { rmon 20 } are defined in RMON [RFC 1757] and
-- the Token Ring RMON MIB [RFC 1513] and the RMON2 MIB [RFC2021].

-- Each of the following is a read-only object which, if implemented,
-- automatically appears when the RMON2 row it is associated with is
-- created.

-- High Capacity Augmentations for the etherStatsTable

etherStatsHighCapacityTable  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF EtherStatsHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-1
        etherStatsTable."
    ::= { statistics 7 }

etherStatsHighCapacityEntry  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     EtherStatsHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-1
        etherStatsEntry."
    AUGMENTS { etherStatsEntry }
    ::= { etherStatsHighCapacityTable 1 }

EtherStatsHighCapacityEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    etherStatsHighCapacityOverflowPkts           Counter32,





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 12]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


    etherStatsHighCapacityPkts                   Counter64,
    etherStatsHighCapacityOverflowOctets         Counter32,
    etherStatsHighCapacityOctets                 Counter64
}

etherStatsHighCapacityOverflowPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated etherStatsPkts
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { etherStatsHighCapacityEntry 1 }

etherStatsHighCapacityPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The total number of packets (including bad packets,
        broadcast packets, and multicast packets) received."
    ::= { etherStatsHighCapacityEntry 2 }

etherStatsHighCapacityOverflowOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated etherStatsOctets
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { etherStatsHighCapacityEntry 3 }

etherStatsHighCapacityOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The total number of octets of data (including
        those in bad packets) received on the
        network (excluding framing bits but including
        FCS octets)."
    ::= { etherStatsHighCapacityEntry 4 }

-- High Capacity Augmentations for the hostTable






Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 13]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


hostHighCapacityTable  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF HostHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-1
        hostTable."
    ::= { hosts 5 }

hostHighCapacityEntry  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     HostHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-1
        hostEntry."
    AUGMENTS { hostEntry }
    ::= { hostHighCapacityTable 1 }

HostHighCapacityEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    hostHighCapacityInOverflowPkts    Counter32,
    hostHighCapacityInPkts            Counter64,
    hostHighCapacityOutOverflowPkts   Counter32,
    hostHighCapacityOutPkts           Counter64,
    hostHighCapacityInOverflowOctets  Counter32,
    hostHighCapacityInOctets          Counter64,
    hostHighCapacityOutOverflowOctets Counter32,
    hostHighCapacityOutOctets         Counter64
}

hostHighCapacityInOverflowPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated hostInPkts
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { hostHighCapacityEntry 1 }

hostHighCapacityInPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of good packets transmitted to





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 14]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


        this address since it was added to the
        hostHighCapacityTable."
    ::= { hostHighCapacityEntry 2 }

hostHighCapacityOutOverflowPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated hostOutPkts
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { hostHighCapacityEntry 3 }

hostHighCapacityOutPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of packets, including bad packets, transmitted
        by this address since it was added to the
        hostHighCapacityTable."
    ::= { hostHighCapacityEntry 4 }

hostHighCapacityInOverflowOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated hostInOctets
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { hostHighCapacityEntry 5 }

hostHighCapacityInOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of octets transmitted to this address
        since it was added to the hostHighCapacityTable (excluding
        framing bits but including FCS octets), except for
        those octets in bad packets."
    ::= { hostHighCapacityEntry 6 }

hostHighCapacityOutOverflowOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 15]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated hostOutOctets
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { hostHighCapacityEntry 7 }

hostHighCapacityOutOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of octets transmitted by this address
        since it was added to the hostHighCapacityTable (excluding
        framing bits but including FCS octets), including
        those octets in bad packets."
    ::= { hostHighCapacityEntry 8 }

-- High Capacity Augmentations for the hostTimeTable

hostTimeHighCapacityTable  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF HostTimeHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-1
        hostTimeTable."
    ::= { hosts 6 }

hostTimeHighCapacityEntry  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     HostTimeHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-1
        hostTimeEntry."
    AUGMENTS { hostTimeEntry }
    ::= { hostTimeHighCapacityTable 1 }

HostTimeHighCapacityEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    hostTimeHighCapacityInOverflowPkts    Counter32,
    hostTimeHighCapacityInPkts            Counter64,
    hostTimeHighCapacityOutOverflowPkts   Counter32,
    hostTimeHighCapacityOutPkts           Counter64,
    hostTimeHighCapacityInOverflowOctets  Counter32,





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 16]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


    hostTimeHighCapacityInOctets          Counter64,
    hostTimeHighCapacityOutOverflowOctets Counter32,
    hostTimeHighCapacityOutOctets         Counter64
}

hostTimeHighCapacityInOverflowPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated hostTimeInPkts
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { hostTimeHighCapacityEntry 1 }

hostTimeHighCapacityInPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of good packets transmitted to this address
        since it was added to the hostTimeHighCapacityTable."
    ::= { hostTimeHighCapacityEntry 2 }

hostTimeHighCapacityOutOverflowPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated hostTimeOutPkts
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { hostTimeHighCapacityEntry 3 }

hostTimeHighCapacityOutPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of packets, including bad packets, transmitted
        by this address since it was added to the
        hostTimeHighCapacityTable."
    ::= { hostTimeHighCapacityEntry 4 }

hostTimeHighCapacityInOverflowOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 17]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated hostTimeInOctets
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { hostTimeHighCapacityEntry 5 }

hostTimeHighCapacityInOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of octets transmitted to this address
        since it was added to the hostTimeHighCapacityTable
        (excluding framing bits but including FCS octets),
        except for those octets in bad packets."
    ::= { hostTimeHighCapacityEntry 6 }

hostTimeHighCapacityOutOverflowOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated hostTimeOutOctets
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { hostTimeHighCapacityEntry 7 }

hostTimeHighCapacityOutOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of octets transmitted by this address since
        it was added to the hostTimeTable (excluding framing
        bits but including FCS octets), including those
        octets in bad packets."
    ::= { hostTimeHighCapacityEntry 8 }

-- High Capacity Augmentations for the matrixSDTable

matrixSDHighCapacityTable  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF MatrixSDHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-1





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 18]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


        matrixSDTable."
    ::= { matrix 5 }

matrixSDHighCapacityEntry  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     MatrixSDHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-1
        matrixSDEntry."
    AUGMENTS { matrixSDEntry }
    ::= { matrixSDHighCapacityTable 1 }

MatrixSDHighCapacityEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    matrixSDHighCapacityOverflowPkts   Counter32,
    matrixSDHighCapacityPkts           Counter64,
    matrixSDHighCapacityOverflowOctets Counter32,
    matrixSDHighCapacityOctets         Counter64
}

matrixSDHighCapacityOverflowPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated matrixSDPkts
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { matrixSDHighCapacityEntry 1 }

matrixSDHighCapacityPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of packets transmitted from the source
        address to the destination address (this number
        includes bad packets)."
    ::= { matrixSDHighCapacityEntry 2 }

matrixSDHighCapacityOverflowOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated matrixSDOctets





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 19]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { matrixSDHighCapacityEntry 3 }

matrixSDHighCapacityOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of octets (excluding framing bits but
        including FCS octets) contained in all packets
        transmitted from the source address to the
        destination address."
    ::= { matrixSDHighCapacityEntry 4 }

-- High Capacity Augmentations for the matrixDSTable

matrixDSHighCapacityTable  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF MatrixDSHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-1
        matrixDSTable."
    ::= { matrix 6 }

matrixDSHighCapacityEntry  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     MatrixDSHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-1
        matrixDSEntry."
    AUGMENTS { matrixDSEntry }
    ::= { matrixDSHighCapacityTable 1 }

MatrixDSHighCapacityEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    matrixDSHighCapacityOverflowPkts   Counter32,
    matrixDSHighCapacityPkts           Counter64,
    matrixDSHighCapacityOverflowOctets Counter32,
    matrixDSHighCapacityOctets         Counter64
}

matrixDSHighCapacityOverflowPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 20]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated matrixDSPkts
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { matrixDSHighCapacityEntry 1 }

matrixDSHighCapacityPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of packets transmitted from the source
        address to the destination address (this number
        includes bad packets)."
    ::= { matrixDSHighCapacityEntry 2 }

matrixDSHighCapacityOverflowOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated matrixDSOctets
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { matrixDSHighCapacityEntry 3 }

matrixDSHighCapacityOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of octets (excluding framing bits
        but including FCS octets) contained in all packets
        transmitted from the source address to the
        destination address."
    ::= { matrixDSHighCapacityEntry 4 }

-- High Capacity Augmentations for the protocolDistStatsTable

protocolDistStatsHighCapacityTable  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF ProtocolDistStatsHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-2
        protocolDistStatsTable."





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 21]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


    ::= { protocolDist 3 }

protocolDistStatsHighCapacityEntry  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     ProtocolDistStatsHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-2
        protocolDistStatsTable."
    AUGMENTS { protocolDistStatsEntry }
    ::= { protocolDistStatsHighCapacityTable 1 }

ProtocolDistStatsHighCapacityEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    protocolDistStatsHighCapacityOverflowPkts   Counter32,
    protocolDistStatsHighCapacityPkts           Counter64,
    protocolDistStatsHighCapacityOverflowOctets Counter32,
    protocolDistStatsHighCapacityOctets         Counter64
}

protocolDistStatsHighCapacityOverflowPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated protocolDistStatsPkts
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { protocolDistStatsHighCapacityEntry 1 }

protocolDistStatsHighCapacityPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of packets without errors received of this
        protocol type.  Note that this is the number of link-layer
        packets, so if a single network-layer packet is fragmented
        into several link-layer frames, this counter is incremented
        several times."
    ::= { protocolDistStatsHighCapacityEntry 2 }

protocolDistStatsHighCapacityOverflowOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 22]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


        "The number of times the associated protocolDistStatsOctets
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { protocolDistStatsHighCapacityEntry 3 }

protocolDistStatsHighCapacityOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of octets in packets received of this protocol
        type since it was added to the protocolDistStatsTable
        (excluding framing bits but including FCS octets), except for
        those octets in packets that contained errors.

        Note this doesn't count just those octets in the particular
        protocol frames, but includes the entire packet that contained
        the protocol."
    ::= { protocolDistStatsHighCapacityEntry 4 }

-- High Capacity Augmentations for the nlHostTable.

nlHostHighCapacityTable  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF NlHostHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-2
        nlHostTable."
    ::= { nlHost 3 }

nlHostHighCapacityEntry  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     NlHostHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-2
        nlHostEntry."
    AUGMENTS { nlHostEntry }
    ::= { nlHostHighCapacityTable 1 }

NlHostHighCapacityEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    nlHostHighCapacityInOverflowPkts    Counter32,
    nlHostHighCapacityInPkts            Counter64,
    nlHostHighCapacityOutOverflowPkts   Counter32,
    nlHostHighCapacityOutPkts           Counter64,





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 23]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


    nlHostHighCapacityInOverflowOctets  Counter32,
    nlHostHighCapacityInOctets          Counter64,
    nlHostHighCapacityOutOverflowOctets Counter32,
    nlHostHighCapacityOutOctets         Counter64
}

nlHostHighCapacityInOverflowPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated nlHostInPkts
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { nlHostHighCapacityEntry 1 }

nlHostHighCapacityInPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of packets without errors transmitted to
        this address since it was added to the nlHostHighCapacityTable.
        Note that this is the number of link-layer packets, so if a
        single network-layer packet is fragmented into several
        link-layer frames, this counter is incremented several times."
    ::= { nlHostHighCapacityEntry 2 }

nlHostHighCapacityOutOverflowPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated nlHostOutPkts
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { nlHostHighCapacityEntry 3 }

nlHostHighCapacityOutPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of packets without errors transmitted by
        this address since it was added to the nlHostHighCapacityTable.
        Note that this is the number of link-layer packets, so if a
        single network-layer packet is fragmented into several





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 24]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


        link-layer frames, this counter is incremented several times."
    ::= { nlHostHighCapacityEntry 4 }

nlHostHighCapacityInOverflowOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated nlHostInOctets
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { nlHostHighCapacityEntry 5 }

nlHostHighCapacityInOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of octets transmitted to this address
        since it was added to the nlHostHighCapacityTable
        (excluding framing bits but including FCS octets),
        excluding those octets in packets that contained
        errors.

        Note this doesn't count just those octets in the
        particular protocol frames, but includes the entire
        packet that contained the protocol."
    ::= { nlHostHighCapacityEntry 6 }

nlHostHighCapacityOutOverflowOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated nlHostOutOctets
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { nlHostHighCapacityEntry 7 }

nlHostHighCapacityOutOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of octets transmitted by this address
        since it was added to the nlHostHighCapacityTable
        (excluding framing bits but including FCS octets),





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 25]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


        excluding those octets in packets that contained
        errors.

        Note this doesn't count just those octets in the
        particular protocol frames, but includes the entire
        packet that contained the protocol."
    ::= { nlHostHighCapacityEntry 8 }

-- High Capacity Augmentations for the nlMatrixTable

nlMatrixSDHighCapacityTable  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF NlMatrixSDHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-2
        nlMatrixTable."
    ::= { nlMatrix 6 }

nlMatrixSDHighCapacityEntry  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     NlMatrixSDHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-2
        nlMatrixEntry."
    AUGMENTS { nlMatrixSDEntry }
    ::= { nlMatrixSDHighCapacityTable 1 }

NlMatrixSDHighCapacityEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    nlMatrixSDHighCapacityOverflowPkts   Counter32,
    nlMatrixSDHighCapacityPkts           Counter64,
    nlMatrixSDHighCapacityOverflowOctets Counter32,
    nlMatrixSDHighCapacityOctets         Counter64
}

nlMatrixSDHighCapacityOverflowPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated nlMatrixSDPkts
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { nlMatrixSDHighCapacityEntry 1 }






Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 26]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


nlMatrixSDHighCapacityPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of packets without errors transmitted from the
        source address to the destination address since this entry was
        added to the nlMatrixSDHighCapacityTable.  Note that this is
        the number of link-layer packets, so if a single network-layer
        packet is fragmented into several link-layer frames, this
        counter is incremented several times."
    ::= { nlMatrixSDHighCapacityEntry 2 }

nlMatrixSDHighCapacityOverflowOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated nlMatrixSDOctets
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { nlMatrixSDHighCapacityEntry 3 }

nlMatrixSDHighCapacityOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of octets transmitted from the source address to
        the destination address since this entry was added to the
        nlMatrixSDHighCapacityTable (excluding framing bits but
        including FCS octets), excluding those octets in packets that
        contained errors.

        Note this doesn't count just those octets in the particular
        protocol frames, but includes the entire packet that contained
        the protocol."
    ::= { nlMatrixSDHighCapacityEntry 4 }

-- High Capacity Augmentations for the nlMatrixDSTable

nlMatrixDSHighCapacityTable  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF NlMatrixDSHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 27]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-2
        nlMatrixDSTable."
    ::= { nlMatrix 7 }

nlMatrixDSHighCapacityEntry  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     NlMatrixDSHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-2
        nlMatrixDSEntry."
    AUGMENTS { nlMatrixDSEntry }
    ::= { nlMatrixDSHighCapacityTable 1 }

NlMatrixDSHighCapacityEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    nlMatrixDSHighCapacityOverflowPkts   Counter32,
    nlMatrixDSHighCapacityPkts           Counter64,
    nlMatrixDSHighCapacityOverflowOctets Counter32,
    nlMatrixDSHighCapacityOctets         Counter64
}

nlMatrixDSHighCapacityOverflowPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated nlMatrixDSPkts
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { nlMatrixDSHighCapacityEntry 1 }

nlMatrixDSHighCapacityPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of packets without errors transmitted from the
        source address to the destination address since this entry was
        added to the nlMatrixHighCapacityDSTable.  Note that this is
        the number of link-layer packets, so if a single network-layer
        packet is fragmented into several link-layer frames, this
        counter is incremented several times."
    ::= { nlMatrixDSHighCapacityEntry 2 }

nlMatrixDSHighCapacityOverflowOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 28]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated nlMatrixDSOctets
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { nlMatrixDSHighCapacityEntry 3 }

nlMatrixDSHighCapacityOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of octets transmitted from the source address
        to the destination address since this entry was added to the
        nlMatrixDSHighCapacityTable (excluding framing bits but
        including FCS octets), excluding those octets in packets that
        contained errors.

        Note this doesn't count just those octets in the particular
        protocol frames, but includes the entire packet that contained
        the protocol."
    ::= { nlMatrixDSHighCapacityEntry 4 }

-- High Capacity Augmentations for the alHostTable

alHostHighCapacityTable  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF AlHostHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-2
        alHostTable."
    ::= { alHost 2 }

alHostHighCapacityEntry  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     AlHostHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-2
        alHostEntry."
    AUGMENTS { alHostEntry }
    ::= { alHostHighCapacityTable 1 }

AlHostHighCapacityEntry ::= SEQUENCE {





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 29]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


    alHostHighCapacityInOverflowPkts    Counter32,
    alHostHighCapacityInPkts            Counter64,
    alHostHighCapacityOutOverflowPkts   Counter32,
    alHostHighCapacityOutPkts           Counter64,
    alHostHighCapacityInOverflowOctets  Counter32,
    alHostHighCapacityInOctets          Counter64,
    alHostHighCapacityOutOverflowOctets Counter32,
    alHostHighCapacityOutOctets         Counter64
}

alHostHighCapacityInOverflowPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated alHostInPkts
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { alHostHighCapacityEntry 1 }

alHostHighCapacityInPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of packets of this protocol type without errors
        transmitted to this address since it was added to the
        alHostHighCapacityTable.  Note that this is the number of
        link-layer packets, so if a single network-layer packet
        is fragmented into several link-layer frames, this counter
        is incremented several times."
    ::= { alHostHighCapacityEntry 2 }

alHostHighCapacityOutOverflowPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated alHostOutPkts
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { alHostHighCapacityEntry 3 }

alHostHighCapacityOutPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 30]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of packets of this protocol type without errors
        transmitted by this address since it was added to the
        alHostHighCapacityTable.  Note that this is the number of
        link-layer packets, so if a single network-layer packet
        is fragmented into several link-layer frames, this counter
        is incremented several times."
    ::= { alHostHighCapacityEntry 4 }

alHostHighCapacityInOverflowOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated alHostInOctets
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { alHostHighCapacityEntry 5 }

alHostHighCapacityInOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of octets transmitted to this address
        of this protocol type since it was added to the
        alHostHighCapacityTable (excluding framing bits but
        including FCS octets), excluding those octets in
        packets that contained errors.

        Note this doesn't count just those octets in the particular
        protocol frames, but includes the entire packet that contained
        the protocol."
    ::= { alHostHighCapacityEntry 6 }

alHostHighCapacityOutOverflowOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated alHostOutOctets
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { alHostHighCapacityEntry 7 }

alHostHighCapacityOutOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 31]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of octets transmitted by this address
        of this protocol type since it was added to the
        alHostHighCapacityTable (excluding framing bits but
        including FCS octets), excluding those octets in
        packets that contained errors.

        Note this doesn't count just those octets in the particular
        protocol frames, but includes the entire packet that contained
        the protocol."
    ::= { alHostHighCapacityEntry 8 }

-- High Capacity Augmentations for the alMatrixSDTable

alMatrixSDHighCapacityTable  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF AlMatrixSDHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-2
        alMatrixSDTable."
    ::= { alMatrix 5 }

alMatrixSDHighCapacityEntry  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     AlMatrixSDHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-2
        alMatrixSDEntry."
    AUGMENTS { alMatrixSDEntry }
    ::= { alMatrixSDHighCapacityTable 1 }

AlMatrixSDHighCapacityEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    alMatrixSDHighCapacityOverflowPkts   Counter32,
    alMatrixSDHighCapacityPkts           Counter64,
    alMatrixSDHighCapacityOverflowOctets Counter32,
    alMatrixSDHighCapacityOctets         Counter64
}

alMatrixSDHighCapacityOverflowPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 32]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated alMatrixSDPkts
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { alMatrixSDHighCapacityEntry 1 }

alMatrixSDHighCapacityPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of packets of this protocol type without errors
        transmitted from the source address to the destination address
        since this entry was added to the alMatrixSDHighCapacityTable.
        Note that this is the number of link-layer packets, so if a
        single network-layer packet is fragmented into several
        link-layer frames, this counter is incremented several times."
    ::= { alMatrixSDHighCapacityEntry 2 }

alMatrixSDHighCapacityOverflowOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated alMatrixSDOctets
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { alMatrixSDHighCapacityEntry 3 }

alMatrixSDHighCapacityOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of octets in packets of this protocol type
        transmitted from the source address to the destination address
        since this entry was added to the alMatrixSDHighCapacityTable
        (excluding framing bits but including FCS octets), excluding
     those octets in packets that contained errors.

        Note this doesn't count just those octets in the particular
        protocol frames, but includes the entire packet that contained
        the protocol."
    ::= { alMatrixSDHighCapacityEntry 4 }

-- High Capacity Augmentations for the alMatrixDSTable





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 33]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


alMatrixDSHighCapacityTable  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF AlMatrixDSHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-2
        alMatrixDSTable."
    ::= { alMatrix 6 }

alMatrixDSHighCapacityEntry  OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     AlMatrixDSHighCapacityEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Contains the High Capacity RMON augmentations to the RMON-2
        alMatrixSDTable."
    AUGMENTS { alMatrixDSEntry }
    ::= { alMatrixDSHighCapacityTable 1 }

AlMatrixDSHighCapacityEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    alMatrixDSHighCapacityOverflowPkts   Counter32,
    alMatrixDSHighCapacityPkts           Counter64,
    alMatrixDSHighCapacityOverflowOctets Counter32,
    alMatrixDSHighCapacityOctets         Counter64
}

alMatrixDSHighCapacityOverflowPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated alMatrixDSPkts
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { alMatrixDSHighCapacityEntry 1 }

alMatrixDSHighCapacityPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of packets of this protocol type without errors
        transmitted from the source address to the destination address
        since this entry was added to the alMatrixDSHighCapacityTable.
        Note that this is the number of link-layer packets, so if a
        single network-layer packet is fragmented into several





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 34]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


        link-layer frames, this counter is incremented several times."
    ::= { alMatrixDSHighCapacityEntry 2 }

alMatrixDSHighCapacityOverflowOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of times the associated alMatrixDSOctets
     counter has overflowed."
    ::= { alMatrixDSHighCapacityEntry 3 }

alMatrixDSHighCapacityOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter64
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of octets in packets of this protocol type
        transmitted from the source address to the destination address
        since this entry was added to the alMatrixDSHighCapacityTable
        (excluding framing bits but including FCS octets), excluding
        those octets in packets that contained errors.

        Note this doesn't count just those octets in the particular
        protocol frames, but includes the entire packet that contained
        the protocol."
    ::= { alMatrixDSHighCapacityEntry 4 }

-- Conformance Macros

hcRmonMIBCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { rmonConformance 4 }
hcRmonMIBGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { rmonConformance 5 }

hcRmon2MIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Describes the requirements for conformance to
        the High Capacity RMON 2 MIB"
    MODULE  -- this module
        MANDATORY-GROUPS { protocolDistributionHighCapacityGroup,
                           nlHostHighCapacityGroup,
                           nlMatrixHighCapacityGroup }

    ::= { hcRmonMIBCompliances 1 }






Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 35]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


hcRmon2MIBApplicationLayerCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Describes the requirements for conformance to
        the High Capacity RMON2 MIB with Application Layer Enhancements."
    MODULE  -- this module
        MANDATORY-GROUPS { protocolDistributionHighCapacityGroup,
                           nlHostHighCapacityGroup,
                           nlMatrixHighCapacityGroup,
                           alHostHighCapacityGroup,
                           alMatrixHighCapacityGroup }

    ::= { hcRmonMIBCompliances 2 }

etherStatsHighCapacityGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { etherStatsHighCapacityOverflowPkts,
              etherStatsHighCapacityPkts,
              etherStatsHighCapacityOverflowOctets,
              etherStatsHighCapacityOctets }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Collects utilization statistics for ethernet networks."
    ::= { hcRmonMIBGroups 1 }

hostHighCapacityGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { hostHighCapacityInOverflowPkts,
              hostHighCapacityInPkts,
              hostHighCapacityOutOverflowPkts,
              hostHighCapacityOutPkts,
              hostHighCapacityInOverflowOctets,
              hostHighCapacityInOctets,
              hostHighCapacityOutOverflowOctets,
              hostHighCapacityOutOctets,
              hostTimeHighCapacityInOverflowPkts,
              hostTimeHighCapacityInPkts,
              hostTimeHighCapacityOutOverflowPkts,
              hostTimeHighCapacityOutPkts,
              hostTimeHighCapacityInOverflowOctets,
              hostTimeHighCapacityInOctets,
              hostTimeHighCapacityOutOverflowOctets,
              hostTimeHighCapacityOutOctets }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Collects utilization statistics per host."
    ::= { hcRmonMIBGroups 2 }





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 36]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


matrixHighCapacityGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { matrixSDHighCapacityOverflowPkts,
              matrixSDHighCapacityPkts,
              matrixSDHighCapacityOverflowOctets,
              matrixSDHighCapacityOctets,
              matrixDSHighCapacityOverflowPkts,
              matrixDSHighCapacityPkts,
              matrixDSHighCapacityOverflowOctets,
              matrixDSHighCapacityOctets }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Collects utilization statistics per conversation."
    ::= { hcRmonMIBGroups 3 }

protocolDistributionHighCapacityGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { protocolDistStatsHighCapacityOverflowPkts,
              protocolDistStatsHighCapacityPkts,
              protocolDistStatsHighCapacityOverflowOctets,
              protocolDistStatsHighCapacityOctets }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Collects the relative amounts of octets and packets for the
        different protocols detected on a network segment."
    ::= { hcRmonMIBGroups 4 }

nlHostHighCapacityGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { nlHostHighCapacityInOverflowPkts,
              nlHostHighCapacityInPkts,
              nlHostHighCapacityOutOverflowPkts,
              nlHostHighCapacityOutPkts,
              nlHostHighCapacityInOverflowOctets,
              nlHostHighCapacityInOctets,
              nlHostHighCapacityOutOverflowOctets,
              nlHostHighCapacityOutOctets }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Counts the amount of traffic sent from and to each network
        address discovered by the probe."
    ::= { hcRmonMIBGroups 5 }

nlMatrixHighCapacityGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { nlMatrixSDHighCapacityOverflowPkts,
              nlMatrixSDHighCapacityPkts,
              nlMatrixSDHighCapacityOverflowOctets,
              nlMatrixSDHighCapacityOctets,





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 37]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


              nlMatrixDSHighCapacityOverflowPkts,
              nlMatrixDSHighCapacityPkts,
              nlMatrixDSHighCapacityOverflowOctets,
              nlMatrixDSHighCapacityOctets }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Counts the amount of traffic sent between each pair of
        network addresses discovered by the probe."
    ::= { hcRmonMIBGroups 6 }

alHostHighCapacityGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { alHostHighCapacityInOverflowPkts,
              alHostHighCapacityInPkts,
              alHostHighCapacityOutOverflowPkts,
              alHostHighCapacityOutPkts,
              alHostHighCapacityInOverflowOctets,
              alHostHighCapacityInOctets,
              alHostHighCapacityOutOverflowOctets,
              alHostHighCapacityOutOctets }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Counts the amount of traffic, by protocol, sent from and to
        each network address discovered by the probe."
    ::= { hcRmonMIBGroups 7 }

alMatrixHighCapacityGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { alMatrixSDHighCapacityOverflowPkts,
              alMatrixSDHighCapacityPkts,
              alMatrixSDHighCapacityOverflowOctets,
              alMatrixSDHighCapacityOctets,
              alMatrixDSHighCapacityOverflowPkts,
              alMatrixDSHighCapacityPkts,
              alMatrixDSHighCapacityOverflowOctets,
              alMatrixDSHighCapacityOctets }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Counts the amount of traffic, by protocol, sent between each
        pair of network addresses discovered by the
        probe."
    ::= { hcRmonMIBGroups 8 }

END








Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 38]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


8.  Security Considerations

In order to implement this MIB, a probe must capture all
packets on the locally-attached network, including packets
between third parties.  These packets are analyzed to collect
network addresses, protocol usage information, and
conversation statistics. Data of this nature may be considered
sensitive in some environments. In such environments the
administrator may wish to restrict SNMP access to the probe.

A probe implementing this MIB is likely to also implement RMON
[RFC1757], which includes functions for returning the contents
of captured packets, potentially including sensitive user data
or passwords. It is recommended that SNMP access to these
functions be restricted.



































Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 39]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


9.  Acknowledgments

This document was produced by the IETF Remote Network
Monitoring Working Group.














































Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 40]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


10.  References

[1]  SNMPv2 Working Group, J. Case, K. McCloghrie, M. Rose, S.
     Waldbusser Structure and Identification of Management
     Information for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2) Internet Working Group
     Request for Comments 1902.  Network Information Center,
     SRI International, Menlo Park, California, (January,
     1996).

[2]  SNMPv2 Working Group, J. Case, K. McCloghrie, M. Rose, S.
     Waldbusser Textual Conventions for Version 2 of the
     Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2) Internet
     Working Group Request for Comments 1903.  Network
     Information Center, SRI International, Menlo Park,
     California, (January, 1996).

[3]  K. McCloghrie and M.T. Rose, Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II,
     Internet Working Group Request for Comments 1213 Network
     Information Center, SRI International, Menlo Park,
     California, (March, 1991).

[4]  SNMPv2 Working Group, J. Case, K. McCloghrie, M. Rose, S.
     Waldbusser Protocol Operations for version 2 of the
     Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2) Internet
     Working Group Request for Comments 1905.  Network
     Information Center, SRI International, Menlo Park,
     California, (January, 1996).

[5]  K. McCloghrie and F. Kastenholz, Evolution of the
     Interfaces Group of MIB-II, Internet Working Group
     Request for Comments 1573.  Network Information Center,
     SRI International, Menlo Park, California, (Jan, 1994).

[6]  Information processing systems -- Open Systems
     Interconnection -- Specification of Abstract Syntax
     Notation One (ASN.1), International Organization for
     Standardization.  International Standard 8824, (December,
     1987).

[7]  Information processing systems -- Open Systems
     Interconnection -- Specification of Basic Encoding Rules
     for Abstract Notation One (ASN.1), International
     Organization for Standardization.  International Standard





Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 41]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


     8825, (December, 1987).

[8]  M.T. Rose, Editor, A Convention for Defining Traps for
     use with the SNMP, Internet Working Group Request for
     Comments 1215.  Network Information Center, SRI
     International, Menlo Park, California, (March, 1991).

[9]  S. Waldbusser Remote Network Monitoring Management
     Information Base Internet Working Group Request for
     Comments 1757 Network Information Center, SRI
     International, Menlo Park, California, (February, 1995).

[10] S. Waldbusser Token Ring Extensions to the Remote Network
     Monitoring MIB Internet Working Group Request for
     Comments 1513 Network Information Center, SRI
     International, Menlo Park, California, (September, 1993).


































Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 42]





Internet Draft   Remote Network Monitoring MIBFebuary 25, 1997


Table of Contents


1 Status of this Memo ...................................    1
2 Abstract ..............................................    1
3 The Network Management Framework ......................    3
4 Overview ..............................................    4
4.1 Remote Network Management Goals .....................    4
4.2 Structure of MIB ....................................    6
5 Control of Remote Network Monitoring Devices ..........    7
5.1 Resource Sharing Among  Multiple  Management  Sta-
     tions ..............................................    7
5.2 Row Addition Among Multiple Management Stations .....    9
6 Conventions ...........................................   11
7 Definitions ...........................................   11
8 Security Considerations ...............................   39
9 Acknowledgments .......................................   40
10 References ...........................................   41
































Steven Waldbusser   Expires August 25, 1997          [Page 43]


