

                        INTERNET DRAFT

                    Criteria for Choosing
                     IP Version 7 (IPv7)


                       3 November 1992


                       Craig Partridge
                 BBN Systems and Technologies

                       Frank Kastenholz
                      FTP Software, Inc
                        2 High Street
              North Andover, Mass 01845-2620 USA

                        kasten@ftp.com






Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet Draft.  Internet Drafts are
working documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force
(IETF), its Areas, and its Working Groups.  Note that other
groups may also distribute working documents as Internet
Drafts.

Internet Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
months.  Internet Drafts may be updated, replaced, or
obsoleted by other documents at any time.  It is not
appropriate to use Internet Drafts as reference material or to
cite them other than as a ``working draft'' or ``work in
progress.''  Please check the 1id-abstracts.txt listing
contained in the internet-drafts Shadow Directories on
nic.ddn.mil, nnsc.nsf.net, nic.nordu.net, ftp.nisc.sri.com, or



















Internet Draft           IPv7 Criteria           November 1992


munnari.oz.au to learn the current status of any Internet
Draft.

This is a working document only, it should neither be cited
nor quoted in any formal document.

This document will expire before 8 May 1993.

Distribution of this document is unlimited.

Please send comments to the author(s).






































Partridge & Kastenholz  Exp. 8 May 1993               [Page 1]













Internet Draft           IPv7 Criteria           November 1992


1.  Introduction

This note attempts to codify and organize the criteria to be
used in evaluating the protocols being proposed for adoption
as IP Version 7.

The criteria presented are culled from several sources,
including "IP Version 7" [1], "IESG Deliberations on Routing
and Addressing" [2], "Towards the Future Internet
Architecture" [3], and the ongoing discussions held on the
Big-Internet mailing list and the mailing lists devoted to the
individual IPv7 efforts.





































Partridge & Kastenholz  Exp. 8 May 1993               [Page 2]













Internet Draft           IPv7 Criteria           November 1992


2.  Goals

The criteria are presented as an ordered list.  We believe
that by ordering priorities, it becomes easier to evaluate the
various proposals and determining each proposal's relative
strengths and weaknesses.  Such a mechanism has proven
valuable in past efforts; see [4].

We have attempted to state the criteria in the form of goals
or requirements and not demand specific engineering solutions.

In determining the relative order of the various criteria, we
have had two guiding principles.  First, IPv7 must offer an
internetwork service akin to that of IPv4, but improved to
handle the well-known and widely-understood problems of
scaling the Internet architecture to more end-points and an
ever increasing range of bandwidths.  Second, it must be
desirable for users and network managers to upgrade their
equipment to support IPv7.  At minimum, this second point
implies that there must be a straightforward way to transition
systems from IPv4 to IPv7.  But it also strongly suggests that
IPv7 should offer features that IPv4 does not; new features
provide a motivation to deploy IPv7 more quickly.


























Partridge & Kastenholz  Exp. 8 May 1993               [Page 3]













Internet Draft           IPv7 Criteria           November 1992


3.  Note on Terminology

The existing proposals currently tend distinguish between end-
point identification of, e.g., individual hosts, and
topological addresses of network attachment points.  In this
note we do not make that distinction. We use the term
"Address" as it is currently used in IPv4; i.e., for both the
identification of a particular endpoint or host AND as the
topological address of a point on the network. We presume that
if the endpoint/address split remains, the proposals will make
the proper distinctions with respect to the criteria
enumerated below.





































Partridge & Kastenholz  Exp. 8 May 1993               [Page 4]













Internet Draft           IPv7 Criteria           November 1992


4.  Protocol Criteria

This section enumerates the criteria against which the IP
Version 7 proposals will be evaluated. This is an ordered
enumeration.

Each criterion is presented in its own section. The first
paragraph of each section is a simple, one  or two sentence
statement of the criterion.  Additional paragraphs then
explain the criterion in more detail, clarify what it does and
does not say and provide some justification for its position
in the list.


4.1.  Scale

CRITERION
     The IPv7 Protocol must scale to allow the identification
     and addressing of 10**11 end systems.  The IPv7 Protocol,
     and its associated routing protocols and architecture
     must allow for up to 10**9 individual networks.  The
     routing schemes must scale with the number of constituent
     networks at a rate that is much less than linear.

DISCUSSION
     The whole purpose of the IPv7 effort is to allow the
     Internet to grow beyond the size constraints imposed by
     the current IPv4 addressing and routing technologies.

     Both aspects of scaling are important.  If we can't route
     then connecting all these hosts is worthless, but without
     connected hosts, there's no point in routing, so we must
     scale in both directions.

     Particular attention in any proposal should be paid to
     describing the routing hierarchy, how the routing and
     addressing will be organized, how different layers of the
     routing interact, and relationship between addressing and
     routing.

Placement
     This criteria is the essential problem motivating the
     transition to IPv7.  If the proposed protocol does not
     satisfy this criteria, there is no point in considering





Partridge & Kastenholz  Exp. 8 May 1993               [Page 5]













Internet Draft           IPv7 Criteria           November 1992


     it.


4.2.  Robust Service

CRITERION
     The network service should be robust.

DISCUSSION
     Murphy's Law applies to networking.  Any IPv7 proposal
     must be well-behaved in the face of malformed packets,
     mis-information, and occasional failures of links,
     routers and hosts.  IPv7 should perform gracefully in
     response to willful management and configuration mistakes
     (i.e. service outages should be minimized).

     Putting this requirement another way, IPv7 must make it
     possible to continue the Internet tradition of being
     conservative in what is sent, but liberal in what one is
     willing to receive.

Placement
     If the protocol is not robust, no one will want to
     transition to it.  So this criteria comes above ease of
     transition.


4.3.  Transition

CRITERION
     The protocol must have a straightforward transition plan
     from the current IPv4.

DISCUSSION
     A smooth, orderly, transition from IPv4 to IPv7 is
     needed.  If we can't transition to the new protocol, then
     no matter how wonderful it is, we'll never get to it.

     We believe that it is not possible to have a "flag-day"
     form of transition in which all hosts and routers must
     change over at once. The size, complexity, and
     distributed administration of the Internet make such a
     cutover impossible.






Partridge & Kastenholz  Exp. 8 May 1993               [Page 6]













Internet Draft           IPv7 Criteria           November 1992


     Rather IPv7 will need to co-exist with IPv4 for some
     period of time. This may imply that hosts and routers may
     need to be able to support both IPv4 and IPv7
     simultaneously.

     There may also be single protocol (i.e. IPv4-only and
     IPv7-only) hosts on the network.  If IPv4 and IPv7 are
     not interoperable, then the need for and use of protocol-
     translating gateways to enable such hosts to communicate
     should be examined.

     In any case, the difficulty of running a network that is
     transitioning from IPv4 to IPv7 must be minimized.  (A
     good target is that running a mixed IPv4-IPv7 network
     should be no more and preferably less difficult than
     running IPv4 in parallel with existing non-IP protocols).

     Furthermore, a network in transition must still be
     robust.  IPv7 schemes which maximize stability and
     connectivity in mixed IPv4-IPv7 networks are preferred.

     The transition plan must address the following general
     areas of the Internet's infrastructure:
     + Host Protocols and Software
     + Router Protocols and Software
     + Security and Authentication
     + Domain Name System
     + Network Management
     + Operations Tools (e.g., Ping and Traceroute)
     + Operations and Administration procedures

     The impact on protocols which use IP addresses as data
     (e.g. DNS, SNMP and FTP) must be specifically addressed.

Placement
     If the transition scheme is painful, no one will
     transition.  But we should only transition if the
     protocol we transition to solves the scaling problems and
     is useful to use.










Partridge & Kastenholz  Exp. 8 May 1993               [Page 7]













Internet Draft           IPv7 Criteria           November 1992


4.4.  Media

CRITERION
     The protocol must work across an internetwork of many
     differnet LAN, MAN, and WAN media, with individual link
     speeds ranging from a kilobit per second to hundreds of
     gigabits per second.  Multiple-access and point-to-point
     media must be supported, as must both media supporting
     switched and permanent circuits.

DISCUSSION
     The joy of IP is that it works over just about anything.
     That ease of adding new technologies, and continuing to
     operate with old technologies must be maintained.  We
     believe this range of speed is right for the next twenty
     years, though it may be we should say terabits at the
     high-end.

     By switched circuits we mean both "permanent" connections
     such as X.25 and Frame Relay services AND "temporary"
     types of dialup connections similar to today's SLIP and
     dialup PPP services.  The latter form connection implies
     that dynamic network access (i.e., the ability to unplug
     a machine, move it to a different point on the network
     topology, and plug it back in, possibly with a changed
     IPv7 address) is required.

     By work, we mean we have hopes that a stream of IPv7
     datagrams (whether from one source, or many) can come
     close to filling the link at high speeds, but also scales
     gracefully to low speeds.

Placement
     We might accept a less flexible protocol if it solves the
     addressing and routing problems and we can transition to
     it.  But those goals having been achieved, we need to
     make sure the protocol is general.


4.5.  Unreliable Datagram Service

CRITERION
     The protocol must support an unreliable datagram delivery
     service.





Partridge & Kastenholz  Exp. 8 May 1993               [Page 8]













Internet Draft           IPv7 Criteria           November 1992


DISCUSSION
     We like IP's datagram service and it seems to work very
     well.  So we should keep it.

Placement
     Datagram service matters less than being able to get the
     data from here to there over different media.


4.6.  Addressing

CRITERION
     The protocol must allow for both unicast and multicast
     addressing.  Part of the multicast capability is a
     requirement to be able to send to "all IP hosts on THIS
     network".

DISCUSSION
     IPv4 has made heavy use of the ability to multicast
     requests to all IPv4 hosts on a subnet, especially for
     autoconfiguration.  This ability must be retained in
     IPv7.

     Unfortunately, IPv4 currently uses the local media
     broadcast address to multicast to all IP hosts.  This
     behavior is anti-social in mixed-protocol networks and
     should be fixed in IPv7.  There's no good reason for IPv7
     to send to all hosts on a subnet when it only wishes to
     send to all IPv7 hosts.  The protocol must make
     allowances for media that do not support true
     multicasting.

     In the past few years, we have begun to deploy support
     for wide-area multicast addressing in the Internet, and
     it has proved valuable.  This capability should not be
     lost in the transition to IPv7.

     The ability to restrict the range of a broadcast or
     multicast to specific networks is also important.

Placement
     Multicast addressing is clearly less important than being
     able to get the data to all end-systems, with the kind of
     service we prefer.  But multicasting is an essential





Partridge & Kastenholz  Exp. 8 May 1993               [Page 9]













Internet Draft           IPv7 Criteria           November 1992


     service, and thus has priority over ease of configuration
     and cost recovery.


4.7.  Configuration, Administration, and Operation

CRITERION
     The protocol must permit easy and largely distributed
     configuration and operation. Automatic configuration is
     required.

DISCUSSION
     People complain that IP is hard to manage.  We cannot
     plug and play.  We should fix that problem.

     We do note that fully automated configuration, especially
     for large, complex networks, is still a topic of
     research.  Our concern is mostly for small and medium
     sized, less complex, networks; places where the essential
     knowledge and skills would not be as readily available.

     In dealing with this criterion, address assignment and
     delegation procedures and restrictions should be
     addressed by the proposal.  Furthermore, "ownership" of
     addresses (e.g. user or service provider) has recently
     become a concern and the issue should be addressed.

Placement
     The previous criteria all deal with essential functions
     of the protocol itself, without which the protocol would
     be useless.  Thus, this criterion is placed after these
     functions.


4.8.  Accounting

CRITERION
     The protocol must support some means for cost recovery.

DISCUSSION
     Commercial providers need to be able to puzzle out some
     way to charge for services.  Charging based on leased-
     line capacity as most IP providers do today, is
     acceptable.





Partridge & Kastenholz  Exp. 8 May 1993              [Page 10]













Internet Draft           IPv7 Criteria           November 1992


     This point does not say that the protocol must support
     billing or per-packet accounting.  It simply says that
     any design for IPv7 should keep in mind that there are
     commercial IP providers who have to be able to charge for
     IP service.

Placement
     If we don't have the right services and if we can not
     actually configure and operate the protocol, billing for
     use of the network isn't useful, so this goes below the
     previous criteria.


4.9.  Extensibility

CRITERION
     The protocol must be extensible; it must be able to
     evolve to meet the future service needs of the Internet.
     This evolution must be achievable without requiring
     network-wide software upgrades.

DISCUSSION
     We do not today know all of the things that we will want
     the Internet to be able to do 10 years from now.  At the
     same time, it is not reasonable to ask users to
     transition to a new protocol with each passing decade.
     Thus, we believe that it must be possible to extend IPv7
     to support new services and facilities.  Furthermore, it
     is essential that any extensions can be incrementally
     deployed to only those systems which desire to use them.
     Systems upgraded in this fashion must still be able to
     communicate with systems which have not been so upgraded.

Placement
     This criterion is primarily concerned with future
     developments in internetworking technology. The
     preceeding criteria all deal with current pressing
     issues. We must address our current problems before we
     start dealing with tomorrow's; therefore, this criterion
     is placed after the preceeding criteria.

     This criterion also is a more general case of the
     following criterion, in that if extensibility is
     provided, then the technological advances discussed in





Partridge & Kastenholz  Exp. 8 May 1993              [Page 11]













Internet Draft           IPv7 Criteria           November 1992


     the following criteria can presumably be provided for.
















































Partridge & Kastenholz  Exp. 8 May 1993              [Page 12]













Internet Draft           IPv7 Criteria           November 1992


At this point we make a significant break.  We go from what we
believe to be essential criteria that IPv7 must meet, to
strongly desired items.


4.10.  Support for Guaranteed Flows

CRITERION
     The protocol should support guaranteed flows.

DISCUSSION
     Multimedia is now on our desktop and will be an essential
     part of future networking.  So we have to find ways to
     support it; and a failure to support it may mean users
     choose to use protocols other than IPv7.

     The IETF multicasts have shown that we can currently
     support multimedia over internetworks with some hitches.
     If we can achieve the needed support for guaranteed flows
     in IPv7, we will dramatically increase its success.

Placement
     At worst, we can consider adding support for guaranteed
     flows as an extension, so it falls after extensibility.


4.11.  Support for Mobility

CRITERION
     The protocol should support mobile hosts.

DISCUSSION
     Again, mobility is becoming increasingly important.  Look
     at the portables that everyone is carrying.  Note the
     strength of the Apple commercial showing someone
     automatically connecting up her Powerbook to her computer
     back in the office.  There have been a number of pilot
     projects showing ways to support mobility in IPv4.  All
     have some drawbacks.  But like guaranteed flows, if we
     can support mobility, IPv7 will have features that will
     encourage transition.

Placement
     We suspect that conferencing and multimedia support from





Partridge & Kastenholz  Exp. 8 May 1993              [Page 13]













Internet Draft           IPv7 Criteria           November 1992


     one's regular office computer is more important than
     mobility.


4.12.  Allow Secure Operation

CRITERION
     The protocol should not preclude secure operation.

DISCUSSION
     We need to be sure that we have not created a network
     that is a cracker's playground.

Placement
     For all that security is important, most sites seem to
     value it less than functionality.


4.13.  Explicit Non-Goals

Fragmentation
     The technology exists for path MTU discovery.
     Presumably, IPv7 will continue to provide this
     technology.  Therefore, we believe that IPv7
     Fragmentation and Reassembly, as provided in IPv4, is not
     necessary.

IPv4/IPv7 Communication
     It is not necessary that IPv4-only and IPv7-only hosts be
     able to communicate directly with each other.



















Partridge & Kastenholz  Exp. 8 May 1993              [Page 14]













Internet Draft           IPv7 Criteria           November 1992


5.  References


[1]  Internet Architecture Board, IP Version 7, Draft 8,
     Internet Draft, July, 1992.

[2]  Gross, P. and P. Almquist, IESG Deliberations on Routing
     and Addressing, Internet Draft, September 1992.
 
[3]  Clark, D., et al, Towards the Future Internet
     Architecture Network Working Group Request For Comments
     1287, December 1991.
 
[4]  Dave Clark's paper at SIGCOMM '88 where he pointed out
     that the design of TCP/IP was guided, in large part, by
     an ordered list of requirements.


































Partridge & Kastenholz  Exp. 8 May 1993              [Page 15]













Internet Draft           IPv7 Criteria           November 1992


Table of Contents


 Status of this Memo ....................................    1
1 Introduction ..........................................    2
2 Goals .................................................    3
3 Note on Terminology ...................................    4
4 Protocol Criteria .....................................    5
4.1 Scale ...............................................    5
4.2 Robust Service ......................................    6
4.3 Transition ..........................................    6
4.4 Media ...............................................    8
4.5 Unreliable Datagram Service .........................    8
4.6 Addressing ..........................................    9
4.7 Configuration, Administration, and Operation ........   10
4.8 Accounting ..........................................   10
4.9 Extensibility .......................................   11
4.10 Support for Guaranteed Flows .......................   13
4.11 Support for Mobility ...............................   13
4.12 Allow Secure Operation .............................   14
4.13 Explicit Non-Goals .................................   14
5 References ............................................   15



























Partridge & Kastenholz  Exp. 8 May 1993              [Page ii]









