
Internet Draft                                               T. Mityok
                                            Public Access Publications
Expires January 10, 1997                                  July 5, 1996


          Adopt MacBinary Mac File Encoding for FTP Transfers
                       draft-mityok-macbin1-00.txt

     This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
     documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its
     areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups may also
     distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

     Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
     months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
     documents at any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-
     Drafts as reference material or to cite them other than as
     "work in progress.''

     To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check
     the "1id-abstracts.txt'' listing contained in the Internet-
     Drafts Shadow Directories on ftp.is.co.za (Africa),
     nic.nordu.net (Europe), munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim),
     ds.internic.net (US East Coast), or ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast).

1. Abstract

This draft is a targeted at the Macintosh Internet users to adopt the
MacBinary form of Macintosh file encoding for use on FTP sites as an 
alternative to BinHexing Macintosh files.

The current standard file encoding method for Macintosh files placed on
Internet FTP sites is BinHexing. The process converts binary data into a
coded-text based format. While very popular and widely used this process
increases the files size dramatically.

For example a self-extracting archive that is 389,089 byte in size will
swell to 535,944 bytes after being BinHexed. The resulting file is nearly
30% larger than its original version. This process is completely wasteful
and totally unnecessary for FTP transfers.

2. Purpose of this draft

The increases in BinHex file sizes translates into larger hard disk
requirements, increased load placed on FTP servers and longer download
times. Users on PPP or SLIP accounts can use modem-based data compression
to increase bandwidth, but with multi-meg downloads the benefits are
negligible.

I suggest the Macintosh community on the Internet adopt the MacBinary form
of file encoding as the standard format for FTP file transfers.

A file that is 389,89 bytes in size is only 389,244 bytes after being
MacBinarized. The total increase of file size is completely unnoticed by
the user.

Mityok                                                        [Page 1]

          Adopt MacBinary Mac File Encoding for FTP Transfers
                            draft-macbin1.txt

The majority of currently available Macintosh Internet software is capable
of either recognizing or decoding a MacBinary file including Netscape,
Internet Explorer, Ircle v2.5 and Fetch v3.0. A non-Internet program
capable of handling a MacBinary file is Stuffit Expander from Aladdin
Systems.

Most notably in the list is Fetch for FTP file transfers. Fetch can be
configured to decode either BinHexed or MacBinary files as they are
downloaded from FTP sites. Fetch can also upload a standard Macintosh file
and MacBinarize it while uploading. This eliminates a secondary process of
encoding before uploading as with BinHexing.

Since so many existing Internet programs can handle this type of file it
would seem logical to take advantage of the hard disk and bandwith savings
of using MacBinary encoding.

3. Author's Address

Tim Mityok
Public Access Publications
450 S. Valencia #A7
Mesa, AZ  85202
Fax: 602-964-2531

EMail: wardawg@public-access.org

Mityok                                                        [Page 2]



    Tim M. Editor/Publisher of Public Access eZine

Public Access Web Server: http://www.public-access.org/

            mailto:wardawg@public-access.org

                 +++Quote of the Day+++

Time is what we want most but we use worst.

-William Penn, statesman

