
INTERNET-DRAFT                                       Addison Phillips
Category: Network                                      webMethods Inc
Title: Tags for Languages                                  Mark Davis
<draft-langtags-phillips-davis-01>                           IBM Corp.

Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is subject to all provisions of 
Section 10 of RFC2026. Internet-Drafts are working documents of the 
Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working 
groups. Note that other groups may also distribute working documents 
as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months 
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any 
time. It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material 
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at:

http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt 

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at:

http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html 

This document is an individual contribution for consideration by the 
Network Working Group of the Internet Engineering Task Force. Comments 
should be submitted to the ietf-languages@alvestrand.no email list.

This document expires in November 2004.



Abstract

This document describes a language tag for use in cases where it is 
desired to indicate the language used in an information object, how to 
register values for use in this language tag, and a construct for 
matching such language tags, including user defined extensions for 
private interchange.



1. Introduction

Human beings on our planet have, past and present, used a number of 
languages. There are many reasons why one would want to identify the 
language used when presenting information.

In some contexts, it is possible to have information available in more 
than one language, or it might be possible to provide tools (such as 
dictionaries) to assist in the understanding of a language.


Phillips/Davis     INTERNET-DRAFT    [Page 1]
Tags for Identification of Languages  November 2003
Also, many types of information processing require knowledge of the 
language in which information is expressed in order for that process 
to be performed on the information; for example spell-checking, 
computer-synthesized speech, Braille, or high-quality print renderings.

One means of indicating the language used is by labeling the 
information content with an identifier for the language that is used 
in this information content. These labels can also be used to specify 
user preferences when selecting information content, or for labeling 
additional attributes of content.

In particular, it is often necessary to define additional specific 
information about the dialect, writing system, or orthography used in 
a document, as this information may be useful to specialists or may be 
important in understanding the structure of the information and ways 
in which it should be processed.

This document specifies an identifier mechanism, a registration 
function for values to be used with that identifier mechanism, and a 
construct for matching against those values. It also defines a 
mechanism for private use extension and how private use, registered 
values, and matching interact.

The keywords "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", 
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this 
document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC 2119].



2. The Language tag

2.1 Language tag syntax

The language tag is composed of one or more parts: A primary language 
subtag and a (possibly empty) series of subsequent subtags. The 
sequence of subtags has a specific structure that depends on the 
length of the subtag to distinguish each tag type.

The syntax of this tag in ABNF [RFC 2234] is:

Language-tag  = lang ["-" script] ["-" region] *("-" variant)  
[extensions] 

  =/ "x" *("-" alphanum)

  =/ grandfathered-registrations

lang  = shortest-alpha-ISO-639-code

  =/ registered-lang 

script  = ISO-15924-code

region  = shortest-alpha-ISO-3166-code

variant  = year


Phillips/Davis     INTERNET-DRAFT    [Page 2]
Tags for Identification of Languages  November 2003
  =/ registered-variant

registered-lang  = 5*16 alphanum

registered-variant  = 5*16 alphanum

extensions  = "-x" 1* ("-" key "=" value)

key  = ALPHA *alphanum

value  = 1* utf8uri

alphanum  = (ALPHA / DIGIT)

utf8uri  = (ALPHA / DIGIT / 1*4 ("%" 2 HEXDIG))

year  = non-zero-digit [*DIGIT] ["BCE"]

non-zero-digit  = %x31-39

The character "-" is HYPHEN-MINUS (ABNF: %x2D). The character "=" is 
EQUALS SIGN (ABNF: %x3D). The character "%" is PERCENT SIGN (ABNF: %
x25).

All tags are to be treated as case insensitive: there exist 
conventions for the capitalization of some of them, but these should 
not be taken to carry meaning. For instance, [ISO 3166] recommends 
that country codes be capitalized (MN Mongolia), while [ISO 639] 
recommends that language codes be written in lower case (mn Mongolian).

For examples, see Appendix B: Examples of Language Tags (Informative) 
at the end of this document.

2.2 Language tag sources

The namespace of language tags is administered by the Internet 
Assigned Numbers Authority (IANA) [RFC 2860] according to the rules in 
section 3 of this document.

Terminology in this section:

-  Tag or tags refers to a complete language tag, such as 'fr-Latn-CA'

-  Subtag refers to a specific section of a tag, separated by hyphen, 
such as 'Latn' in 'fr-Latn-CA'

-  Code or codes refers to the tags defined in external standards. For 
example, 'Latn' is an ISO 15924 script code (which can be used as a 
script subtag in a language tag)

The rules in this section apply to the various subtags within the 
language tags defined in this document, excepting those 
"grandfathered" tags defined in section 2.2.1 of this document. Those 
tags should be considered as exceptions to the rules presented here. 

The following rules apply to the primary (language) subtag:


Phillips/Davis     INTERNET-DRAFT    [Page 3]
Tags for Identification of Languages  November 2003
-  All 2-character language subtags are interpreted according to 
assignments found in ISO standard 639, "Code for the representation of 
names of languages" [ISO 639], or assignments subsequently made by the 
ISO 639 Part 1 maintenance agency or governing standardization bodies.

-  All 3-character language subtags are interpreted according to 
assignments found in ISO 639 part 2, "Codes for the representation of 
names of languages --  Part 2: Alpha-3 code [ISO 639-2]", or 
assignments subsequently made by the ISO 639 part 2 maintenance agency 
or governing standardization bodies, or assignments of 3-character 
disambiguation registrations according to Rule 7a. Ambiguity in 
Section 2.3 Choice of language tag of this document.

-  ISO639 reserves for private use codes the range 'qaa' through 
'qtz'. These codes should be used for non-registered language subtags.

-  Subtags of 5 to 16 characters may be registered with IANA, 
according to the rules in section 3 of this document. (Note that 
previously, in rfc3066, the IANA registry contained whole tag 
registrations such as de-CH-1994, whereas this document refers to the 
registration of subtags such as 'klingon')

-  The single character subtag "x" as the primary subtag indicates 
that the whole language tag is a private use tag. The value and 
semantic meaning of such a tag as a whole and of the subtags used 
within such as tag are undefined by this document.

-  Other values shall not be assigned except by revision of this 
document.

The following rules apply to the script subtags:

-  All 4-character subtags are interpreted as ISO 15924 alpha-4 script 
codes from [ISO 15924], or subsequently assigned by the ISO 15924 
maintenance agency or governing standardization bodies, denoting the 
script or writing system used in conjunction with this language. These 
alpha4 tags may only occur as the second subtag in a tag. For example: 
'de-Latn' represents German written using Latin script.

-  ISO 15924 reserves the codes Qaaa-Qtzz for private use values. 
These codes should be used for non-registered script values.

-  Script subtags can NOT be registered using the process in Section 3 
of this document. Variant subtags may be considered for registration 
for that purpose. Note that registered subtags can only appear in the 
first position or as a sequence on the end of a language tag. This 
makes the associated exception handling when parsing tags simpler.

The following rules apply to the region subtags:

-  All 2-character and 3-character subtags following the primary 
subtag denote the area to which this language variant relates, and are 
interpreted according to assignments found in ISO 3166 alpha- 2 (or 
alpha-3) country codes from [ISO 3166], assignments subsequently made 
by the ISO 3166 maintenance agency or governing standardization 
bodies, or assignments of 3-character disambiguation registrations 

Phillips/Davis     INTERNET-DRAFT    [Page 4]
Tags for Identification of Languages  November 2003
according to Rule 7a. [Ambiguity] in Section 2.3 [Choice of language 
tag] of this document.

-  Region subtags must occur after any script subtags and before any 
variant subtags or extensions. The shortest form ISO3166 code must be 
used to form the subtag. At the time this document was written, all 
alpha3 codes had a corresponding alpha2 code. Use of alpha3 codes is 
provided for a foreseeable future in which alpha2 codes have been 
exhausted. Example: 'de-Latn-CH' represents German written using Latin 
script for Switzerland.

-  ISO 3166 reserves the country codes AA, QM-QZ, XA-XZ and ZZ (plus 
any three-character sequences starting with these codes) as user-
assigned codes. These codes should be used for private use region 
subtags.

-  No region subtags can be registered using the process in Section 3 
of this document. Variant subtags may be considered for registration 
for this purpose.

The following rules apply to the variant subtags:

-  Numeric subtags are variant subtags interpreted to be Gregorian 
calendar year numbers. The year number must not start with a zero and 
is interpreted to be a year number in the Common Era (C.E.) unless a 
suffix of "BCE" is appended to indicate a Before Common Era date. By 
definition there is no year "0" and the implied calendar is proleptic 
(that is, the year numbers extend back to a period before the actual 
adoption of the Gregorian calendar and thus may not be historically 
correct). Dates are useful to distinguish events such as official 
spelling reforms. For example: de-CH-1904.

-  Additional alphanumeric subtags of 5 to 16 characters may be 
registered with IANA, according to the rules in section 3 of this 
document. Registered subtags must not begin with the character 'x', 
which is reserved for private use subtags. (Note that previously, in 
rfc3066, the IANA registry contained whole tag registrations such as 
'en-boont', whereas this document refers to the registration of 
subtags such as 'boont')

-  Additional alphanumeric subtags of 5 to 16 characters starting with 
'x' are reserved for private use. The semantics of these subtags must 
be defined by the end users of such subtags and the semantic meaning 
should be considered external to this document.

The following rules apply to the extensions:

-  Extension subtags are separated from the other subtags defined in 
this document by the single character subtag 'x'.

-  Extensions must follow all language, script, region, and variant 
subtags.

-  Extensions consist of key-value pairs. Each key-value pair is 
separated using the HYPHEN-MINUS character. The key and value are 
separated by EQUALS SIGN. 


Phillips/Davis     INTERNET-DRAFT    [Page 5]
Tags for Identification of Languages  November 2003
-  The key must consist of an alphanumeric sequence of any length 
starting with a letter (alpha character). It may not be empty.

-  The value must consist of a non-empty sequence of UTF-8 [RFC 3629] 
characters, encoded using the URI encoding rules in Section 2.1 of 
[RFC 2396]. Note that alphanumeric values will be encoded as 
themselves. So the value "abc" is encoded as "abc", while the 
character LATIN SMALL LETTER A WITH GRAVE (U+00E0, ABNF %xE0) is 
encoded as "%c3%a0".

-  No source is defined for extensions. External agreement or 
standardization of extension subtags is by private agreement and 
should not be considered part of this document.

For example: 'az-Arab-x-SIL=AZE-dialect=derbend' contains two 
extension subtags. The first is "SIL=AZE" and the second is 
"dialect=derbend". 



2.2.1 Pre-Existing RFC 3066 Tag Registrations

Existing IANA registered language tags from RFC1766/RFC3066 that are 
not defined by additions to this document maintain their validity. 
IANA will maintain these tags, adding a notation that they are 
"grandfathered from RFC 3066". 

The rules governing existing RFC 1766 and RFC 3066 registered tags are:

-  If the formerly registered tag would now be defined by this 
document, then the existing tag is marked as superseded by this 
document and no subtag will be registered as a result. For example, zh-
Hans would now be defined by the addition of ISO 15924 script codes.

-  If the registered tag contained one or more subtags that follow the 
guidelines for registered language or variant subtags, and all of the 
subtags are either now defined by this document or would be valid to 
register, then each subtag not already covered by this document will 
be registered automatically by IANA without further review and the 
existing tag marked as superseded by this document. For example: the 
tag 'en-boont' fits the pattern for a registered variant. The variant 
subtag "boont" will be registered automatically and 'en-boont' marked 
as superseded.

-  If the registered tag contains any subtags that are not otherwise 
valid for registration according to the rules in this document, then 
the tag as a whole is maintained as an exceptional case (that is, it 
is "grandfathered"). This includes special cases of Sign Language 
tags. For example, the tag 'i-klingon' is not covered by any addition 
and is grandfathered, as is sgn-BE-fr (Belgian French Sign Language).

Users of tags that are grandfathered should consider registering the 
appropriate subtags using the new format (but are not required to).




Phillips/Davis     INTERNET-DRAFT    [Page 6]
Tags for Identification of Languages  November 2003
2.2.2 Possibilities for registration consideration include:

-  Languages not listed in ISO 639 that are not variants of any listed 
language, can be registered, such as tsolyani. Before attempting to 
register a language subtag, there should be a good faith attempt to 
register the language with ISO 639. No language subtags will be 
registered for codes that exist in ISO 639-1 or ISO 639-2.

-  Dialect or other divisions or variations within a language, its 
orthography, writing system, regional variation, or historical usage, 
such as the "scouse" subtag (the Scouse dialect of English).

This document leaves the decision on what subtags are appropriate or 
not to the registration process described in section 3.

ISO 639 defines a maintenance agency for additions to and changes in 
the list of languages in ISO 639. This agency is:

International Information Centre for Terminology (Infoterm)

P.O. Box 130 A-1021

Wien, Austria

Phone: +43 1 26 75 35 Ext. 312 Fax: +43 1 216 32 72

ISO 639-2 defines a maintenance agency for additions to and changes in 
the list of languages in ISO 639-2. This agency is:



Library of Congress

Network Development and MARC Standards Office

Washington, D.C. 20540

USA Phone: +1 202 707 6237  Fax: +1 202 707 0115

URL: http://www.loc.gov/standards/iso639 

The maintenance agency for ISO 3166 (country codes) is:



ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency Secretariat 

c/o DIN Deutsches Institut fuer Normung

Burggrafenstrasse 6

Postfach 1107  D-10787 Berlin  Germany

Phone: +49 30 26 01 320  Fax: +49 30 26 01 231

URL: http://www.din.de/gremien/nas/nabd/iso3166ma/ 


Phillips/Davis     INTERNET-DRAFT    [Page 7]
Tags for Identification of Languages  November 2003
The registration authority for ISO 15924 (script codes) is: 



Unicode Consortium Box 391476

Mountain View, CA 94039-1476, USA 

URL: http://www.unicode.org/iso15924 

2.3 Choice of language tag

One may occasionally be faced with several possible tags for the same 
body of text.

Interoperability is best served if all users send the same tag, and 
use the same tag for the same language for all documents. If an 
application has requirements that make the rules here inapplicable, 
the application protocol specification MUST specify how the procedure 
varies from the one given here.

The text below is based on the set of tags known to the tagging entity.

1. In general, one should choose the tag with the fewest number of 
subtags for a given context. For example, "de" might suffice for most 
tagging of emails, while "de-Latn-DE-1903-x-collation=phonebook" is 
probably unnecessarily precise for such a task.

2.  Use the most precise tag known to the sender that can be 
ascertained and is useful within the application context. Although 
this appears to be a contradiction of the first rule, it is important 
to consider the application context and be as precise as possible 
within reasonable limitations.

3. When a language has both an ISO 639-1 2-character code and an ISO 
639-2 3-character code, you MUST use the ISO 639-1 2-character code.

4. When a language has no ISO 639-1 2-character code, and the ISO 639- 
2/T (Terminology) code and the ISO 639-2/B (Bibliographic) codes 
differ, you MUST use the Terminology code. NOTE: At present all 
languages that have both kinds of 3-character code also are assigned a 
2-character code, and the displeasure of developers about the 
existence of two different code sets has been adequately communicated 
to ISO. So this situation will hopefully not arise.

5. You SHOULD NOT use the UND (Undetermined) code unless the protocol 
in use forces you to give a value for the language tag, even if the 
language is unknown. Omitting the tag is preferred.

6. You SHOULD NOT use the MUL (Multiple) tag if the protocol allows 
you to use multiple languages, as is the case for the Content-Language 
header in HTTP.

NOTE: In order to avoid versioning difficulties in applications such 
as that experienced in RFC 1766, the ISO 639 Registration Authority 
Joint Advisory Committee (RA-JAC) has agreed on the following policy 

Phillips/Davis     INTERNET-DRAFT    [Page 8]
Tags for Identification of Languages  November 2003
statement:

"After the publication of ISO/DIS 639-1 as an International Standard, 
no new 2-letter code shall be added to ISO 639-1 unless a 3-letter 
code is also added at the same time to ISO 639-2. In addition, no 
language with a 3-letter code available at the time of publication of 
ISO 639-1 which at that time had no 2-letter code shall be 
subsequently given a 2-letter code."

This will ensure that, for example, a user who implements "haw" 
(Hawaiian), which currently has no 2-character code, will not find his 
or her data invalidated by eventual addition of a 2-character code for 
that language."

7. To maintain backwards compatibility, there are two provisions to 
account for potential instability in ISO 639, 3166, and 15924 codes.

a. Ambiguity. In the event that one of these standards assigns a code 
a new meaning or reassigns a deprecated code, the new use of the code 
will not be permitted in language tags defined by this document. 

The language subtag reviewer, as described in Section 3, shall prepare 
a proposal for entering in the IANA registry, as soon as practical, a 
variant subtag as a surrogate value for the new code. The form of the 
registered variant should be a 3-character tag that is not otherwise 
permitted by the ISO registration authority, such as one containing a 
sequence number (e.g. CS1). However, should the ISO registration 
authority or standard expand the allowable 3-character tags so that 
this is not possible, then this may be any other valid registration 
(such as CS2003, marking the year of introduction).

The normal registration process described in Section 3 of this 
document applies to the review and registration of such variant 
subtags, except that they may be 3 characters long, as described 
above. Note that these subtags should never be used in combination 
with the subtag type for which they are a surrogate. For example, a 
"region" variant subtag should not be used with a region subtag.

For example:

 cs-CS (Czech for Czechoslovakia)

 sr-CS1 (Serbian for Serbia and Montenegro, using a registered variant)

 sr-CS-CS1 (Incorrect usage)



 qx-Latn (hypothetical reassigned value 'qx')

 qx2003-Latn (hypothetical registered language subtag)

b. Stability. All other ISO codes are valid, even if they have been 
deprecated. At the time of this writing, this includes the following 
list. Where a new equivalent code has been defined (given below on the 
right side after a tilde), implementations should treat these tags as 

Phillips/Davis     INTERNET-DRAFT    [Page 9]
Tags for Identification of Languages  November 2003
identical.

For example, deprecated ISO 639 codes:

iw ~ he

in ~ id

ji ~ yi

Deprecated ISO 3166 codes

FX

TP ~ TL

YU

2.4 Meaning of the language tag

The language tag always defines a language as spoken (or written, 
signed or otherwise signaled) by human beings for communication of 
information to other human beings. Computer languages such as 
programming languages are explicitly excluded.

If a language tag B contains language tag A as a prefix, then B should 
typically be "narrower" or "more specific" than A. However, this 
relationship is not guaranteed. There is also no guaranteed 
relationship between languages whose tags begin with the same series 
of subtags; specifically, they are NOT guaranteed to be mutually 
intelligible, although they may be.

The relationship between the tag and the information it relates to is 
defined by the standard describing the context in which it appears. 
Accordingly, this section can only give possible examples of its usage.

-  For a single information object, it could be taken as the set of 
languages that is required for a complete comprehension of the 
complete object. Example: Plain text documents.

-  For an aggregation of information objects, it should be taken as 
the set of languages used inside components of that aggregation.  
Examples: Document stores and libraries.

-  For information objects whose purpose is to provide alternatives, 
the set of tags associated with it should be regarded as a hint that 
the content is provided in several languages, and that one has to 
inspect each of the alternatives in order to find its language or 
languages. In this case, a tag with multiple languages does not mean 
that one needs to be multi-lingual to get complete understanding of 
the document. Example: MIME multipart/alternative.

-  In markup languages, such as HTML and XML, language information can 
be added to each part of the document identified by the markup 
structure (including the whole document itself). For example, one 
could write <span lang="FR">C'est la vie.</span> inside a Norwegian 

Phillips/Davis     INTERNET-DRAFT    [Page 10]
Tags for Identification of Languages  November 2003
document; the Norwegian-speaking user could then access a French-
Norwegian dictionary to find out what the marked section meant. If the 
user were listening to that document through a speech synthesis 
interface, this formation could be used to signal the synthesizer to 
appropriately apply French text-to-speech pronunciation rules to that 
span of text, instead of misapplying the Norwegian rules.



2.5 Language-range

Since the publication of RFC 3066, it has become apparent that there 
is a need to define a term for a set of languages whose tags all begin 
with the same sequence of subtags.

The following definition of language-range is derived from HTTP/1.1 
[RFC 2616].

language-range = language-tag / "*"

That is, a language-range has the same syntax as a language-tag, or is 
the single character "*".

A language-range matches a language-tag if it exactly equals the tag, 
or if it exactly equals a prefix of the tag such that the first 
character following the prefix is "-".

The special range "*" matches any tag. A protocol which uses language 
ranges may specify additional rules about the semantics of "*"; for 
instance, HTTP/1.1 specifies that the range "*" matches only languages 
not matched by any other range within an "Accept-Language:" header.

NOTE: This use of a prefix matching rule does not imply that language 
tags are assigned to languages in such a way that it is always true 
that if a user understands a language with a certain tag, then this 
user will also understand all languages with tags for which this tag 
is a prefix. The prefix rule simply allows the use of prefix tags if 
this is the case.



3. IANA registration procedure for language tags

The procedure given here MUST be used by anyone who wants to use a 
subtag not given an interpretation in section 2.2 of this document or 
previously registered with IANA.

This procedure MAY also be used to register information with the IANA 
about a tag or subtag defined by this document, for instance if one 
wishes to make publicly available a reference to the definition for a 
language such as sgn-US (American Sign Language).

Variant subtags may not be registered using the pattern 2 ALPHA 4 
DIGIT to accommodate the provisions in Section 2.3, rule 7a of this 
document. That is, the subtag xx1234 can NOT be registered except 
under the aforementioned provisions.


Phillips/Davis     INTERNET-DRAFT    [Page 11]
Tags for Identification of Languages  November 2003
Subtags that start with the letter 'x' also many not be registered, 
since this prefix is reserved for unregistered, private use subtags.

The process starts by filling out the registration form reproduced 
below.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

LANGUAGE TAG SUBTAG REGISTRATION FORM

Name of requester:

E-mail address of requester:

Subtag to be registered:

Type of Subtag: [ ] language [ ] variant

Full English name of subtag:

Intended meaning of the subtag:

If variant subtag, the intended prefix(es) of subtag:

Native name of language (transcribed into ASCII):

Reference to published description of the language (book or article):

Any other relevant information:

----------------------------------------------------------------------



The subtag registration form must be sent to <ietf-languages@iana.org> 
for a two week review period before it can be submitted to IANA. (This 
is an open list. Requests to be added should be sent to <ietf-
languages-request@iana.org>.)

Variant subtags are generally registered for use with a particular 
prefix or set of prefixes. For example, the subtag 'boont' is intended 
for use with the prefix 'en-', since Boontling is a dialect of English.

Any registered subtag can be incorporated into a variety of language 
tags, according to the rules of 2.1 Language tag syntax. This makes 
the validation simpler and thus more uniform across implementations, 
and does not require new registrations for different intended prefixes.

However, the intended prefixes for a given registered subtag will be 
maintained in the IANA registry as a guide to usage. If it is 
necessary to add an additional intended prefix to that list for an 
existing language tag, that can be done by filing an additional 
registration form. In that form, the "Any other relevant information: 
" field should indicate that it is the addition of an additional 
intended prefix.


Phillips/Davis     INTERNET-DRAFT    [Page 12]
Tags for Identification of Languages  November 2003
When the two week period has passed, the subtag reviewer, who is 
appointed by the IETF Applications Area Director, either forwards the 
request to IANA@IANA.ORG, or rejects it because of significant 
objections raised on the list. Note that the reviewer can raise 
objections on the list himself, if he or she so desires. The important 
thing is that the objection must be made publicly.

The applicant is free to modify a rejected application with additional 
information and submit it again; this restarts the two week comment 
period.

Decisions made by the reviewer may be appealed to the IESG [RFC 2028] 
under the same rules as other IETF decisions [RFC 2026]. All 
registered forms are available online in the directory http://www.iana.
org/numbers.html under "languages".

Updates of registrations follow the same procedure as registrations. 
The subtag reviewer decides whether to allow a new registrant to 
update a registration made by someone else; normally objections by the 
original registrant would carry extra weight in such a decision.

Registrations are permanent and stable. When some registered subtag 
should not be used any more, for instance because a corresponding ISO 
639 code has been created, the registration should be amended by 
adding a remark like "DEPRECATED: use <new code> instead" to the 
"other relevant information" section.

Note: The purpose of the "published description" is intended as an aid 
to people trying to verify whether a language is registered, or what 
language a particular subtag refers to. In most cases, reference to an 
authoritative grammar or dictionary of that language will be useful; 
in cases where no such work exists, other well known works describing 
that language or in that language may be appropriate. The subtag 
reviewer decides what constitutes "good enough" reference material.



4. Security Considerations

The only security issue that has been raised with language tags since 
the publication of RFC 1766, which stated that "Security issues are 
believed to be irrelevant to this memo", is a concern with language 
ranges used in content negotiation - that they may be used to infer 
the nationality of the sender, and thus identify potential targets for 
surveillance.

This is a special case of the general problem that anything you send 
is visible to the receiving party. It is useful to be aware that such 
concerns can exist in some cases.

The evaluation of the exact magnitude of the threat, and any possible 
countermeasures, is left to each application protocol.



5. Character set considerations


Phillips/Davis     INTERNET-DRAFT    [Page 13]
Tags for Identification of Languages  November 2003
Language tags may always be presented using the characters A-Z, a-z, 0-
9, EQUALS SIGN, and HYPHEN-MINUS, which are present in most character 
sets, so presentation of language tags should not have any character 
set issues.

The issue of deciding upon the rendering of a character set based on 
the language tag is not addressed in this memo; however, it is thought 
impossible to make such a decision correctly for all cases unless 
means of switching language in the middle of a text are defined (for 
example, a rendering engine that decides font based on Japanese or 
Chinese language may produce sub-optimal output when a mixed Japanese- 
Chinese text is encountered)



6. Acknowledgements

Any list of contributors is bound to be incomplete; please regard the 
following as only a selection from the group of people who have 
contributed to make this document what it is today. 

The contributors to RFC 3066 and RFC 1766, the precursors of this 
document, made enormous contributions directly or indirectly to this 
document and are generally responsible for the success of language 
tags. 

The following people (in alphabetical order) contributed to this 
document or to RFCs 1766 and 3066:

Glenn Adams, Harald Tveit Alvestrand, Tim Berners-Lee, Marc Blanchet, 
Nathaniel Borenstein, Eric Brunner, Sean M. Burke, John Clews, Jim 
Conklin, Peter Constable, John Cowan, Mark Crispin, Dave Crocker, 
Martin Duerst, Michael Everson, Ned Freed, Tim Goodwin, Dirk-Willem 
van Gulik, Marion Gunn, Paul Hoffman, Olle Jarnefors, Kent Karlsson, 
John Klensin, Alain LaBonte, Eric Mader, Keith Moore, Chris Newman, 
Masataka Ohta, George Rhoten, Keld Jorn Simonsen, Otto Stolz, Tex 
Texin, Rhys Weatherley, Misha Wolf, Francois Yergeau and many, many 
others.

Very special thanks must go to Harald Tveit Alvestrand, who originated 
RFCs 1766 and 3066, and without whom this document would not have been 
possible. Special thanks must go to Michael Everson, who has served as 
language tag reviewer for almost the complete period since the 
publication of RFC 1766.



7. Authors' Addresses

Addison P. Phillips
webMethods, Inc.
432 Lakeside Drive
Sunnyvale, CA, 94088, USA


Phillips/Davis     INTERNET-DRAFT    [Page 14]
Tags for Identification of Languages  November 2003
Phone: +1 408 962-5487

EMail: aphillips@webmethods.com

Mark Davis
IBM
Email: mark.davis@us.ibm.com

8. References

[ISO 639] ISO 639:1988 (E/F) - Code for the representation of names   
of languages - The International Organization for Standardization, 1st 
edition, 1988-04-01 Prepared by ISO/TC 37 - Terminology (principles 
and coordination).  Note that a new version (ISO 639-1: 2000) is in 
preparation at the time of this writing.

[ISO 639-2] ISO 639-2:1998 - Codes for the representation of names of 
languages -- Part 2: Alpha-3 code - edition 1, 1998-11-01, 66 pages, 
prepared by a Joint Working Group of ISO TC46/SC4 and ISO TC37/SC2.

[ISO 3166] ISO 3166:1988 (E/F) - Codes for the representation of   
names of countries - The International Organization for   
Standardization, 3rd edition, 1988-08-15.

[ISO 15924] ISO 15924:2003 (E/F) - Codes for the representation of 
names of scripts - The International Organization for Standardization, 
2003-03-04, prepared by ISO TC46/WG3 and Michael Everson.

[RFC 1327] Kille, S., "Mapping between X.400 (1988) / ISO 10021 and   
RFC 822", RFC 1327, May 1992.

[RFC 1521] Borenstein, N., and N. Freed, "MIME Part One: Mechanisms   
for Specifying and Describing the Format of Internet Message Bodies", 
RFC 1521, September 1993.

[RFC 2026] Bradner, S., "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision   
3", BCP 9, RFC 2026, October 1996.

[RFC 2028] Hovey, R. and S. Bradner, "The Organizations Involved in   
the IETF Standards Process", BCP 11, RFC 2028, October 1996.

[RFC 2119] Bradner, S."Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate 
Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

[RFC 2234] Crocker, D. and P. Overell, "Augmented BNF for Syntax   
Specifications: ABNF", RFC 2234, November 1997.

[RFC 2616] Fielding, R., Gettys, J., Mogul, J., Frystyk, H., Masinter, 
L., Leach, P. and T. Berners-Lee, "Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- 
HTTP/1.1", RFC 2616, June 1999.

[RFC 2860] Carpenter, B., Baker, F. and M. Roberts, "Memorandum of   
Understanding Concerning the Technical Work of the Internet Assigned 
Numbers Authority", RFC 2860, June 2000.


Phillips/Davis     INTERNET-DRAFT    [Page 15]
Tags for Identification of Languages  November 2003
[RFC 3629] Yergeau, F., "UTF-8, a transformation format of ISO 10646", 
RFC 3629, November 2003

[RFC 2396] Berners-Lee, T., Fielding, R., Masinter, L., "Uniform 
Resource Identifiers (URI): Generic Syntax", RFC 2396, August 1998



Appendix A: Language Tag Reference Material

The Library of Congress, maintainers of ISO 639-2, has made the list 
of languages registered available on the Internet.

At the time of this writing, it can be found at http://www.loc.
gov/standards/iso639-2/langhome.html 

The IANA registration forms for registered language codes can be found 
at http://www.iana.org/numbers.html under "languages".

The ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency has published Web pages at http://www.
din.de/gremien/nas/nabd/iso3166ma/ 



Appendix B: Examples of Language Tags (Informative)

Simple language code:

de (German)
fr (French)
ja (Japanese)



Language code plus Script code :

zh-Hant (Traditional Chinese)
en-Latn (English written in Latin script)
sr-Cyrl (Serbian written with Cyrillic script)



Language-Script-Region:

zh-Hans-CN (Simplified Chinese for the PRC)
sr-Latn-CS1 (Serbian, Latin script, Serbia and Montenegro)



Language-Script-Region-Variant:


Phillips/Davis     INTERNET-DRAFT    [Page 16]
Tags for Identification of Languages  November 2003
en-Latn-US-boont (Boontling dialect of English)

de-Latn-CH-1904 (Swiss German with the 1904 spelling reform)



Language-Region:

de-DE (German for Germany)
zh-SG (Chinese for Singapore)
cs-CS (Czech for Czechoslovakia)

sr-CS1 (Serbian for Serbia and Montenegro, IANA registered variant, 
see 7a in Section 2.3)



Language-Year Variant:

grc-700BCE (Ancient Greek, circa 700 BCE, e.g. during Homer's lifetime)
frm-1400 (Middle French, circa 1400 C.E.)
ang-1066 (Old English, circa the Norman Conquest)



Other Mixtures:

zh-CN (Chinese for the PRC)
en-boont (Boontling dialect of English)



Extension mechanism:

de-CH-x-collation=phonebook
az-Arab-x-SIL=AZE-dialect=derbend













EXPIRATION: This document expires in November 2004.


Phillips/Davis     INTERNET-DRAFT    [Page 17]
Tags for Identification of Languages  November 2003


 






Attachment Converted: "c:\program files\qualcomm\eudora\imap\dominant\ids\attach\draft-langtags-phillips-davis-01.pdf"

