                                                          Neil Harrison 
   Internet Draft                                          Peter Willis 
   Document: draft-harrison-mpls-oam-req-01.txt         British Telecom 
   Expires: May 2002                                        
                                                         Shahram Davari 
                                                             PMC-Sierra 
                                                                        
   Enrique G. Cuevas                                     Ben Mack-Crane 
   AT&T                                                         Tellabs 
                                                                        
   Elke Franze                                             Hiroshi Ohta 
   Deutsche Telekom                                                 NTT 
                                                                        
   Tricci So                                          Sanford Goldfless 
   Caspian Network                                         Feihong Chen 
                                                                 Lucent
   Mina Azad (this version's editor)                                                
   David Allan                                              Eric Davalo
   Nortel Networks                                Maple Optical Systems

   Wesam Alanqar                                         Marcus Brunner
   Sprint                                               NEC Europe Ltd.

   Chou Lan Pok                                               Arun Punj
   SBC Technology Resources, Inc.                Marconi Communications            
      
                                                                        
                                                          December 2001 
    
    
                   Requirements for OAM in MPLS Networks 
    
    
Status of this Memo 
    
   This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance 
   with all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026. 
    
    
   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering 
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts. 
    
   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six 
   months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents 
   at any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as 
   reference material or to cite them other than as "work in progress." 
    
   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at 
        http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt 
   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at 
        http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html. 
    


MPLS OAM Requirements            Expires May 2002               [Page 1]

Copyright Notice 
    
   Copyright(C) The Internet Society (2001). All Rights Reserved. 
    


Abstract 
 
   This draft provides requirements for maintenance procedures and 
Protocols (a.k.a. OAM) to determine the health and performance of MPLS
user-plane. 

   Motivation for MPLS user-plane maintenance tools rose from Network 
operators need to determine availability and performance of MPLS LSPs 
(Label Switched Paths). User-plane OAM tools are required to verify 
that LSPs have been setup and are available to deliver customer data to 
target destinations according to QoS (Quality of Service) guarantees 
given in SLAs (Service Level Agreements). 
 

Conventions used in this document 
    
   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", 
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in 
   this document are to be interpreted as described in RFC-2119 [1]. 


Table of Contents
-----------------
1. Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
2. Motivation for MPLS user-plane maintenance functionality  . . . . 3
3. Network Provider's Requirements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3
4. Requirements extracted from IETF RFCs and Internet Drafts . . . . 5
5. Security Considerations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
6. References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6
7. Author's Addresses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 
    


















MPLS OAM Requirements            Expires May 2002               [Page 2]
     
1. Introduction 
    
   This draft provides requirements for maintenance procedures and 
protocols (a.k.a. OAM) to determine the health and performance of MPLS 
user-plane. It is recognized that OAM functionality is important in 
public networks to facilitate and reduce cost of network operation, 
determine LSP availability, and measure quality of service. Standardized
definition of availability performance and performance monitoring tools 
allow network users to verify whether network operators are providing 
contracted Service Layer Agreements.     
    
    
2. Motivation for MPLS user-plane maintenance functionality

   Operators need MPLS user-plane OAM in order to:
 
 - Ensure that MPLS becomes a reliable network platform that can be 
operable, administered, and maintained through appropriate user-plane 
mechanisms

 - Allow development of simple, consistent and measurable availability 
and QoS SLAs for services such as MPLS-based VPNs

 - Drive down operational costs (which are the largest cost-line over 
the life of a network)

 - Protect the security/integrity of the network

 - Reduce defect detection time and, thus, increase reliability.


3. Network Provider's Requirements
    
   This section describes the high level requirements that have been 
identified and requested by a number of service providers. 

User-plane maintenance functionality must:

1) be made available at any level in the MPLS stack;
   MPLS nesting/tunneling capability (realized through label stack 
encoding [5]) allows LSPs to create layer networks in their own right. 
Therefore, It should be made possible to insert OAM packets at each 
nesting level. At this point, there are no requirements for maintenance 
functionality across nesting levels.  

   Note: Similar requirement has been stated in 
   draft-team-tewg-restore-hierarchy-00.txt
   "However, a capability should be provided for a network operator to 
   control the operation of survivability mechanisms among different 
   layers".  





MPLS OAM Requirements            Expires May 2002               [Page 3]

2) automatically detect most types of user-plane defects;
   All the major defect conditions must be identified with in-service 
Measurable entry and exit criteria, and all consequent actions must be 
specified. At least the following MPLS user-plane defects need to be 
detected: 
     a. Loss of LSP connectivity (due to a server layer failure or a 
        failure within the MPLS layer) 
     b. Swapped LSP trails 
     c. LSP mismerging (of 2 or more LSP trails; including loops)  
     d. Unintended replication (e.g. unintended multicasting). 

   It is also important to specify how unavailable/available state 
Transition relate to the stopping/starting of the aggregation of 
available state QoS metrics. 

   Note: similar requirement is also stated in 
   draft-ietf-ppvpn-requirements-02.txt                         
   "6.1 Fault management  
        Support for fault management includes: 
        - indication of customers impacted by failure, 
        - fault detection (incidents reports, alarms, failure 
          visualization), 
        - fault localization (analysis of alarms reports, diagnostics), 
        - incident recording or logs, creation and follow through of 
          trouble tickets), 
        - corrective actions (traffic, routing, resource allocation)". 

3) facilitate automated and timely network response to user-plane 
defects; If a defect occurs, it is necessary to detect, notify and 
localize it immediately and to take necessary actions.  This is to 
minimize service interruption by providing the network with sufficient 
information to take corrective action to bypass the defect (protection 
switching, re-routing etc.), and to minimize the time to correct the 
defect and return the failed resource to the available state.  It is 
necessary that defects be detected and notified automatically without 
operator intervention for this purpose.

4) provide automatic and on-demand maintenance and diagnostic functions.

5) be independent of any control-plane maintenance functionality;
   The control-plane must also have its own maintenance capability. 
This version of the requirements draft does not address control-plane 
OAM. 
   
   Note: Similar requirement is stated in 
   draft-ietf-ipo-carrier-requirements-00.txt
   "Requirement 60. The signaling network shall have its own OAM 
   mechanisms."
 
6) be independent of user-plane maintenance functionality used in other 
client or server layer network technologies; This is critical to ensure 
that layer networks can evolve (or new/old layer networks be 
added/removed) without impacting other layer networks.


MPLS OAM Requirements            Expires May 2002               [Page 4]

   Note: Client and server layer independency is also required for MPLS 
   based recovery. As indicated draft-ietf-mpls-recovery-frmwrk-03.txt, 
   client layer (i.e. layer 3 and IP) functionality might not be fast 
   enough and server layer functionality might not be sufficiently 
   accessible to address MPLS based recovery.


7) be scalable to at least the order that LSPs are scalable;
   Specifically, operator actions for set up and activation of 
Maintenance functions should be kept to minimum in large-scale networks. 

8) be backward compatible;
   LSRs that do not support such function must silently discard or pass
Through the OAM packets without disturbing the traffic or causing 
Unnecessary actions. 

9) be an extensible framework that will support important MPLS 
applications (e.g., TE, VPN, Frame Relay, ATM, Ethernet, Layer-2 
Encapsulations).
   
   Note: Similar requirement is stated in 
   draft-ietf-pwe3-requirements-01.txt
   "5.2. Status Monitoring
         Some native services have mechanisms for status monitoring. 
         For example, ATM supports OAM for this purpose.  For such 
         services, the corresponding emulated services MUST specify how
         to perform status monitoring.  The mechanisms NEED NOT be 
         defined in this WG. Some status monitoring mechanisms defined 
         in other WGs, e.g., [LSPPING] or [MPLSOAM], may be leveraged".

   Note: [LSPPING] is the same as [7] and [MPLSOAM] is the same as [8].


4. Requirements extracted from IETF RFCs and Internet Drafts

Numerous OAM requirements have been stated in existing IETF RFCs and 
Working group Internet drafts. This section provides a summary of such 
requirements to highlight the significance of dependency on MPLS 
user-plane OAM.

draft-heron-ppvpn-vpsn-reqmts-00.txt
   "While further OAM functionality, such as the ability to trigger 
    remote network loopbacks or to verify that frames are successfully 
    delivered to the intended remote VPSN instance, is desirable it is 
    to be considered out of scope for this effort. Other groups are 
    defining such functionality, for example the LSP-ping effort [7] 
    and the MPLS OAM effort [8], and it may be possible to leverage 
    this work in VPSN implementations."







MPLS OAM Requirements            Expires May 2002               [Page 5]

RFC 2702                
   "when a fault occurs along the path through which the traffic trunk
    traverses. The following basic problems need to be addressed under 
    such circumstances: (1) fault detection, (2) failure notification,
    (3) recovery and service restoration. Obviously, an MPLS 
    implementation will have to incorporate mechanisms to address these
    issues".

draft-owens-te-network-survivability-01.txt
   "7.3.1 Considerations for the ATM and/or MPLS Layer
    As discussed, fault detection at the MPLS layer could be by 
    Detecting TTL errors or by counting unlabeled packets or packets 
    with unrecognized labels. An issue with TTL errors is that they 
    could be the result of either an MPLS layer or an IP layer problem,
    since the MPLS header carries the IP TTL. For instance, TTL mis-
    matches could be due to a genuine problem with an upstream LSR or 
    due to a router upstream of the LSR detecting the mismatches, 
    probably the edge router that converted the IP packet into a 
    labeled MPLS packet. Likewise, the persistent receipt of unlabeled 
    packets or packets with unknown labels might indicate protocol 
    problems, and necessitate a protection switch.
    Thus, detection of some types of errors at the MPLS layer may 
    require a protection switch at the same layer, which is independent
    of lower layers."


5. Security Considerations 
    
   The OAM function described in this document enhances the security of 
   MPLS networks, by detecting mis-connections, and therefore 
   preventing customers traffic to be exposed to other customers. 
     
   The MPLS OAM functions as defined in this document do not raise any 
   new security issue, to MPLS networks. 
    
    
6. References
    
   [1]  IETF, RFC-2119, "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate 
   Requirement Levels", Category: Best Current Practice, March 1997
 
   [2]  IETF, RFC-2026, "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3", 
   Best Current Practice, October 1996

   [3]  IETF, RFC-2702, "Requirements for Traffic Engineering Over MPLS"
   , Informational, September 1999   
 
   [4]  IETF, RFC3031, "Multiprotocol Label Switching Architecture", 
   Category: Standards Track, January 2001. 
    
   [5]  IETF, RFC 3032, "MPLS label stack encoding", 
   Category: Standards Track, January 2001. 

 

MPLS OAM Requirements            Expires May 2002               [Page 6]
   
   [6]  Marco Carugi et. al., "Service requirements for Provider 
   Provisioned Virtual Private Networks", 
   draft-ietf-ppvpn-requirements-02.txt, August 2001

   [7]  Ping Pan et. al., "Detecting Data Plane Liveliness in
   RSVP-TE", draft-pan-lsp-ping-01.txt, July 2001
  
   [8]  Neil Harrison et. al. "Requirements for OAM in MPLS
   Networks", draft-harrison-mpls-oam-req-01.txt, May 2001

   [9]  Wai Sum Lai st. al., "Network Hierarchy and Multilayer 
   Survivability",
   draft-team-tewg-restore-hierarchy-00.txt, July 2001

   [10] Yong Xue et. al., "Carrier Optical Services Requirements", 
   draft-ietf-ipo-carrier-requirements-00.txt., expiry: January 2002

   [11] XiPeng Xiao et. al., "Requirements for Pseudo-Wire Emulation 
   Edge-to-Edge(PWE3)", draft-ietf-pwe3-requirements-01.txt, July 2001

   [12] Giles Heron et. Al., "Requirements for Virtual Private Switched
   Networks", draft-heron-ppvpn-vpsn-reqmts-00.txt, July 2001

   [13] Ken Owens et. al., "Network Survivability Considerations for 
   Traffic Engineered IP Networks", 
   draft-owens-te-network-survivability-01.txt, July 2001

   [14] Vishal Sharma et. al., "Framework for MPLS-based Recovery", 
   draft-ietf-mpls-recovery-frmwrk-03.txt, July 2001

  
7. Author's Addresses 
    
   Neil Harrison 
   British Telecom              Phone: 44-1604-845933 
   Heath Bank                   Email: neil.2.Harrison@bt.com 
   Iugby Road, Harleston 
   South Hampton, UK 
    
   Peter Willis 
   British Telecom              Phone: 44-1473-645178 
   BT, PP RSB10/PP3 B81         Email: peter.j.willis@bt.com 
   Adastrial Park 
   Martlesham, Ipswich, UK  
    
   Shahram Davari 
   PMC-Sierra 
   411 Legget Drive             Phone: 1-613-271-4018 
   Kanata, ON, Canada           Email: Shahram_Davari@pmc-sierra.com 
    
   Ben Mack-Crane 
   Tellabs 
   4951 Indiana Ave             Phone: 1-630-512-7255 
   Lisle, IL, USA               Email: ben.mack-crane@tellabs.com 

MPLS OAM Requirements            Expires May 2002               [Page 7]
     
   Hiroshi Ohta 
   NTT 
   3-9-11 Midori-cho            phone: +81-422-59-3617
   Musashino-Shi,               Email: ohta.hiroshi@lab.ntt.co.jp
   Tokyo 180-8585 Japan
   
   Sanford Goldfless 
   Lucent Technologies 
   200 Nickerson Road           Phone: 508-786-3655 
   Marlborough, MA 01752        Email: sgoldfless@lucent.com 
    
   Feihong Chen 
   Lucent Technologies 
   200 Nickerson Road           Phone: 508-786-3675 
   Marlborough, MA 01752        Email: fchen6@lucent.com 
    
   Tricci So 
   Caspian Network 
   170 Baytech Drive            Phone: 408-382-5217 
   San Jose, CA                 Email: tso@caspiannetworks.com 
   U.S.A. 94070 
    
   Elke Franze 
   Deutsche Telekom 
   T-Systems 
   T-Nova, Technologiezentrum   Phone: +49 6151 83 5459 
   D-64307 Darmstadt            Email: elke.franze@t-systems.de   
   Darmstadt, Germany 
       
   Enrique G. Cuevas 
   AT&T  
   Room D3-2B25                 Phone: +1 732 420 3252 
   200 S. Laurel Avenue         E-mail: ecuevas@att.com 
   Middletown, NJ 07748 USA

   Mina Azad
   Nortel Networks
   3500 Carling Ave.		phone: 1-613-763-2044 
   Ottawa, Ontario, CANADA	Email: mazad@nortelnetworks.com

   David Allan
   Nortel Networks		Phone: (613) 763-6362
   3500 Carling Ave.		Email: dallan@nortelnetworks.com
   Ottawa, Ontario, CANADA

   Eric Davalo
   Maple Optical Systems
   3200 North First Street    Phone: 408 545 3110
   San Jose, CA 95134         Email: edavalo@mapleoptical.com
   
   Wesam Alanqar
   Sprint
   9300, Metcalf Ave,         Phone: +1-913-534-5623
   Overland Park, KS 66212    E-mail: wesam.alanqar@mail.sprint.com

MPLS OAM Requirements            Expires May 2002               [Page 8]

   
   Marcus Brunner
   NEC Europe Ltd.
   Adenauerplatz 6              Phone: +49 (0)6221/ 9051129
   D-69115 Heidelberg, Germany  Email: brunner@ccrle.nec.de 

   
   Chou Lan Pok
   SBC Technology Resources, Inc.                  
   4698 Willow Road,          Phone: 925-598-1229
   Pleasanton, CA 94583       Email: pok@tri.sbc.com 

   Arun Punj
   Marconi Communications
   1000 Marconi Drive, warrandale - PA - 15086
 






































MPLS OAM Requirements            Expires May 2002               [Page 9]

