




DHC Working Group                                        Narasimha Swamy
INTERNET DRAFT                                            Nokia Networks

Updates: RFC 2131                                              July 2003
                                                    Expires January 2004


                Client Identifier option in server replies
                   <draft-swamy-dhc-client-id-00.txt>

Status of this Memo

   This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with
   all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-
   Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2003). All Rights Reserved.

Abstract

   	   
   This document clarifies the use of 'client identifier' option by the
   clients and servers as mentioned in [RFC2131]. The clarification 
   addresses the issue arising out of the point specified by [RFC2131]
   that the server 'MUST NOT' return client identifier' option to the
   client.









Swamy                     Expires January 2004                 [Page 1]




Internet Draft             Client Identifier                  July 2003

1.  Introduction

   In some cases, client may not be having valid hardware address value
   to be filled in 'chaddr' field of the packet (one such example is 
   when DHCP is used to assign IP addresses to Mobile phones). In this 
   case, client sets 'client identifier' option, and both client and 
   server use this field to uniquely identify the client with in
   a subnet. But [RFC2131] specifies that server "MUST NOT" return 
   'client identifier' in DHCPOFFER and DHCPACK messages. In this case,
   when a client receives response from server, it can't guarantee that
   response is intended for it. Note that even though 'xid' field is 
   present to map responses with requests, this field alone can't guar-
   antee that a particular response is for a particular client, as 'xid'
   values generated by multiple clients within a subnet need not be 
   unique. This draft proposes modification to server behavior to addr-
   ess this problem. 


2.  Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119 [RFC 2119].

   This document uses the following terms:

      o "DHCP client"

        A DHCP client is an Internet host using DHCP to obtain confi-
        guration parameters such as a network address.

      o "DHCP server"

        A DHCP server is an Internet host that returns configuration
        parameters to DHCP clients.


3.  Proposed modification to [RFC2131]

   If the 'client identifier' option is set in the message received from
   client, the server MUST return 'client identifier' value in its 
   response message. 

   Following table is extracted from section 4.3.1 of [RFC2131] and 
   relevant fields are modified accordingly. 

Option                    DHCPOFFER    DHCPACK            DHCPNAK
------                    ---------    -------            -------
Client identifier         MAY          MAY                MAY

           Table 1:  Options used by DHCP servers

Swamy                     Expires January 2004                 [Page 2]




Internet Draft             Client Identifier                  July 2003

4.  Security Considerations

   No known security considerations. 


5.  Acknowledgments

   I would like to thank Umesh Kulkarni, Harish Raghuveer and Hari Mallath
   for their support and feedback. 


6.  References


   [RFC 951] Croft, B., Gilmore, J., "Bootstrap Protocol (BOOTP)", RFC
      951, September 1985.

   [RFC 1542] Wimer, W., "Clarifications and Extensions for the
      Bootstrap Protocol", RFC 1542, October 1993.

   [RFC 2119] Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
      Requirement Levels", RFC 2119, March 1997.

   [RFC 2131] Droms, R., "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol", RFC
      2131, March 1997.

   [RFC 2132] Alexander, S., Droms, R., "DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor
      Extensions", RFC 2132, March 1997.



7.  Author's information


	Narasimha Swamy
	Nokia India Pvt Ltd
	#50, Vanivilas Rd
	Basavanagudi
	Bangalore - 560 004

	Phone: +91 80 6618100

	Email: narasimha.nelakuditi@nokia.com
      

8.  Intellectual Property Statement

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any intel-
lectual property or other rights that might be claimed to  pertain to
the implementation or use of the technology described in this document
or the extent to which any license under such rights might or might not
be available; neither does it represent that it has made any effort to
identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's procedures with

Swamy                     Expires January 2004                 [Page 3]



Internet Draft             Client Identifier                  July 2003


respect to rights in standards-track and standards-related documentation
can be found in BCP-11.  Copies of claims of rights made available for
publication and any assurances of licenses to be made available, or the
result of an attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for
the use of such proprietary rights by implementors or users of this
specification can be obtained from the IETF Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights
which may cover technology that may be required to practice this stan-
dard.  Please address the information to the IETF Executive Director.


9.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2003).  All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to oth-
ers, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and dis-
tributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind, provided
that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included on all
such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself may not
be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice or
references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the  purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet Stan-
dards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS
IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK
FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT
INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FIT-
NESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.













Swamy                     Expires January 2004                 [Page 4]
