



INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


                      Host Resources MIB

              Saturday July 31 22:00:00 PDT 1999


                      Steven Waldbusser
             International Network Services (INS)
                      waldbusser@ins.com


                         Pete Grillo
                   PlusFactor Software Inc.
                     pete@plusfactor.com





Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance
with all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet
Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working
groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
documents at any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-
Drafts as reference material or to cite them other than as
"work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed
at http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1999).  All Rights Reserved.







Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000           [Page 1]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


Abstract

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base
(MIB) for use with network management protocols in the
Internet community.  This memo obsoletes RFC 1514, the "Host
Resources MIB". This memo extends that specification by
clarifying changes based on implementation and deployment
experience and documenting the Host Resources MIB in SMIv2
format while remaining semantically identical to the existing
SMIv1-based MIB.

This memo defines a MIB for use with managing host systems.
The term "host" is construed to mean any computer that
communicates with other similar computers attached to the
internet and that is directly used by one or more human
beings. Although this MIB does not necessarily apply to
devices whose primary function is communications services
(e.g., terminal servers, routers, bridges, monitoring
equipment), such relevance is not explicitly precluded.  This
MIB instruments attributes common to all internet hosts
including, for example, both personal computers and systems
that run variants of Unix.




























Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000           [Page 2]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


1.  The SNMP Management Framework

   The SNMP Management Framework presently consists of five
   major components:

    o   An overall architecture, described in RFC 2571
        [RFC2571].

    o   Mechanisms for describing and naming objects and
        events for the purpose of management. The first
        version of this Structure of Management Information
        (SMI) is called SMIv1 and described in STD 16, RFC
        1155 [RFC1155], STD 16, RFC 1212 [RFC1212] and RFC
        1215 [RFC1215]. The second version, called SMIv2, is
        described in STD 58, RFC 2578 [RFC2578], RFC 2579
        [RFC2579] and RFC 2580 [RFC2580].

    o   Message protocols for transferring management
        information. The first version of the SNMP message
        protocol is called SNMPv1 and described in STD 15, RFC
        1157 [RFC1157]. A second version of the SNMP message
        protocol, which is not an Internet standards track
        protocol, is called SNMPv2c and described in RFC 1901
        [RFC1901] and RFC 1906 [RFC1906]. The third version of
        the message protocol is called SNMPv3 and described in
        RFC 1906 [RFC1906], RFC 2572 [RFC2572] and RFC 2574
        [RFC2574].

    o   Protocol operations for accessing management
        information. The first set of protocol operations and
        associated PDU formats is described in STD 15, RFC
        1157 [RFC1157]. A second set of protocol operations
        and associated PDU formats is described in RFC 1905
        [RFC1905].

    o   A set of fundamental applications described in RFC
        2573 [RFC2573] and the view-based access control
        mechanism described in RFC 2575 [RFC2575].

   A more detailed introduction to the current SNMP Management
   Framework can be found in RFC 2570 [RFC2570].

   Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information
   store, termed the Management Information Base or MIB.
   Objects in the MIB are defined using the mechanisms defined





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000           [Page 3]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


   in the SMI.

   This memo specifies a MIB module that is compliant to the
   SMIv2. A MIB conforming to the SMIv1 can be produced
   through the appropriate translations. The resulting
   translated MIB must be semantically equivalent, except
   where objects or events are omitted because no translation
   is possible (use of Counter64). Some machine readable
   information in SMIv2 will be converted into textual
   descriptions in SMIv1 during the translation process.
   However, this loss of machine readable information is not
   considered to change the semantics of the MIB.






































Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000           [Page 4]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


2.  Host Resources MIB

The Host Resources MIB defines a uniform set of objects useful
for the management of host computers.  Host computers  are
independent of the operating system, network services, or any
software application.

The Host Resources MIB defines objects which are common across
many computer system architectures.

In addition, there are objects in the SNMPv2-MIB [RFC1907] and
IF-MIB [RFC2233] which also provide host management
functionality. Implementation of the System and Interfaces
groups is mandatory for implementors of the Host Resources
MIB.

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL
NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED","MAY", and
"OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described
in [RFC2119].

3.  IANA Considerations

This MIB contains type definitions for storage types, device
types, and file system types for use as values for the
hrStorageType, hrDeviceType, and hrFSType objects,
respectively. As new computing technologies are developed, new
types need to be registered for these technologies. The IANA
(Internet Assigned Numbers Authority) is designated as the
registration authority for new registrations beyond those
published in this document.

Given the large number of such technologies and potential
confusion in naming of these technologies (such as a
technology known by two names or a name and an acronym), there
is a real danger that more than one registration might be
created for what is essentially the same technology. In order
to ensure that future type registrations are performed
correctly, applications for new types will be reviewed by a
Designated Expert appointed by the IESG.










Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000           [Page 5]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


4.  Definitions

HOST-RESOURCES-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, mib-2,
    Integer32, Counter32, Gauge32, TimeTicks  FROM SNMPv2-SMI

    TEXTUAL-CONVENTION, DisplayString,
    TruthValue, DateAndTime, AutonomousType   FROM SNMPv2-TC

    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP           FROM SNMPv2-CONF

    InterfaceIndexOrZero                      FROM IF-MIB;


hostResourcesMibModule MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9907312200Z"    -- 31 July, 1999
    ORGANIZATION "IETF Host Resources MIB Working Group"
    CONTACT-INFO
        "Steve Waldbusser
        Postal: International Network Services (INS)
                1213 Innsbruck Dr.
                Sunnyvale, CA 94089
                USA
        Phone: 650-318-1251
        Fax:   650-318-1633
        Email: waldbusser@ins.com

        In addition, the Host Resources MIB mailing list is dedicated to
        discussion of this MIB. To join the mailing list, send a request
        message to hostmib-request@andrew.cmu.edu. The mailing list
        address is hostmib@andrew.cmu.edu."
    DESCRIPTION
        "This MIB is for use in managing host systems. The
        term `host' is construed to mean any computer that
        communicates with other similar computers attached to
        the internet and that is directly used by one or more
        human beings. Although this MIB does not necessarily
        apply to devices whose primary function is
        communications services (e.g., terminal servers,
        routers, bridges, monitoring equipment), such
        relevance is not explicitly precluded.  This MIB
        instruments attributes common to all internet hosts
        including, for example, both personal computers and





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000           [Page 6]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


        systems that run variants of Unix."
    REVISION "9907312200Z"    -- 31 July, 1999
    DESCRIPTION
        "Clarifications and bug fixes based on implementation
        experience. This revision was also reformatted in the
        SMIv2 format. The revisions made were:

        New RFC document standards:
            Added Copyright notice, updated introduction to SNMP
            Framework, updated references section, added reference to
            RFC 2119, and added a meaningful Security Considerations
            section.

        New IANA considerations section for registration of new types

        Conversion to new SMIv2 syntax for the following types and
        macros:
            Counter32, Integer32, Gauge32, MODULE-IDENTITY,
            OBJECT-TYPE, TEXTUAL-CONVENTION, OBJECT-IDENTITY,
            MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP

        Used new Textual Conventions:
            TruthValue, DateAndTime, AutonomousType,
            InterfaceIndexOrZero

        Fixed typo in hrPrinterStatus.

        Added missing error bits to hrPrinterDetectedErrorState and
        clarified how to handle situations when two errors are active
        at once.

        Clarified that size of objects of type
        InternationalDisplayString is number of octets, not number of
        encoded symbols.

        Clarified the use of the following objects based on
        implementation experience:
            hrSystemInitialLoadDevice, hrSystemInitialLoadParameters,
            hrMemorySize, hrStorageSize, hrStorageAllocationFailures,
            hrDeviceErrors, hrProcessorLoad, hrNetworkIfIndex,
            hrDiskStorageCapacity, hrSWRunStatus, hrSWRunPerfCPU,
            and hrSWInstalledDate.

        Clarified implementation technique for hrSWInstalledTable.






Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000           [Page 7]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


        Used new AUGMENTS clause for hrSWRunPerfTable
This revision published as RFCXXXX."
    REVISION "9309011200Z"    -- 1 Sep, 1993
    DESCRIPTION
        "The original version of this MIB, published as
        RFC1514."
    ::= { hrMIBAdminInfo 1 }

host     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { mib-2 25 }

hrSystem        OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { host 1 }
hrStorage       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { host 2 }
hrDevice        OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { host 3 }
hrSWRun         OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { host 4 }
hrSWRunPerf     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { host 5 }
hrSWInstalled   OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { host 6 }
hrMIBAdminInfo  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { host 7 }

































Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000           [Page 8]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


-- textual conventions

KBytes ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Storage size, expressed in units of 1024 bytes."
    SYNTAX Integer32 (0..2147483647)

ProductID ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "This textual convention is intended to identify the
        manufacturer, model, and version of a specific
        hardware or software product.  It is suggested that
        these OBJECT IDENTIFIERs are allocated such that all
        products from a particular manufacturer are registered
        under a subtree distinct to that manufacturer.  In
        addition, all versions of a product should be
        registered under a subtree distinct to that product.
        With this strategy, a management station may uniquely
        determine the manufacturer and/or model of a product
        whose productID is unknown to the management station.
        Objects of this type may be useful for inventory
        purposes or for automatically detecting
        incompatibilities or version mismatches between
        various hardware and software components on a system.

        For example, the product ID for the ACME 4860 66MHz
        clock doubled processor might be:
        enterprises.acme.acmeProcessors.a4860DX2.MHz66

        A software product might be registered as:
        enterprises.acme.acmeOperatingSystems.acmeDOS.six(6).one(1)
        "
    SYNTAX OBJECT IDENTIFIER

-- unknownProduct will be used for any unknown ProductID
-- unknownProduct OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { 0 0 }












Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000           [Page 9]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


InternationalDisplayString ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "This data type is used to model textual information
        in some character set.  A network management station
        should use a local algorithm to determine which
        character set is in use and how it should be
        displayed.  Note that this character set may be
        encoded with more than one octet per symbol, but will
        most often be NVT ASCII. When a size clause is
        specified for an object of this type, the size refers
        to the length in octets, not the number of symbols."
    SYNTAX OCTET STRING





































Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 10]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


-- The Host Resources System Group

hrSystemUptime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The amount of time since this host was last
        initialized.  Note that this is different from
        sysUpTime in the SNMPv2-MIB [RFC1907] because
        sysUpTime is the uptime of the network management
        portion of the system."
    ::= { hrSystem 1 }

hrSystemDate OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The host's notion of the local date and time of day."
    ::= { hrSystem 2 }

hrSystemInitialLoadDevice OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The index of the hrDeviceEntry for the device from
        which this host is configured to load its initial
        operating system configuration (i.e., which operating
        system code and/or boot parameters).

        Note that writing to this object just changes the
        configuration that will be used the next time the
        operating system is loaded and does not actually cause
        the reload to occur."
    ::= { hrSystem 3 }

hrSystemInitialLoadParameters OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InternationalDisplayString (SIZE (0..128))
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "This object contains the parameters (e.g. a pathname
        and parameter) supplied to the load device when





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 11]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


        requesting the initial operating system configuration
        from that device.

        Note that writing to this object just changes the
        configuration that will be used the next time the
        operating system is loaded and does not actually cause
        the reload to occur."
    ::= { hrSystem 4 }

hrSystemNumUsers OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Gauge32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of user sessions for which this host is
        storing state information.  A session is a collection
        of processes requiring a single act of user
        authentication and possibly subject to collective job
        control."
    ::= { hrSystem 5 }

hrSystemProcesses OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Gauge32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of process contexts currently loaded or
        running on this system."
    ::= { hrSystem 6 }

hrSystemMaxProcesses OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The maximum number of process contexts this system
        can support.  If there is no fixed maximum, the value
        should be zero.  On systems that have a fixed maximum,
        this object can help diagnose failures that occur when
        this maximum is reached."
    ::= { hrSystem 7 }









Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 12]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


-- The Host Resources Storage Group

-- Registration point for storage types, for use with hrStorageType.
-- These are defined in the HOST-RESOURCES-TYPES module.
hrStorageTypes          OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hrStorage 1 }

hrMemorySize OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     KBytes
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The amount of physical read-write main memory,
        typically RAM, contained by the host."
    ::= { hrStorage 2 }




































Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 13]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


hrStorageTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF HrStorageEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The (conceptual) table of logical storage areas on
        the host.

        An entry shall be placed in the storage table for each
        logical area of storage that is allocated and has
        fixed resource limits.  The amount of storage
        represented in an entity is the amount actually usable
        by the requesting entity, and excludes loss due to
        formatting or file system reference information.

        These entries are associated with logical storage
        areas, as might be seen by an application, rather than
        physical storage entities which are typically seen by
        an operating system.  Storage such as tapes and
        floppies without file systems on them are typically
        not allocated in chunks by the operating system to
        requesting applications, and therefore shouldn't
        appear in this table.  Examples of valid storage for
        this table include disk partitions, file systems, ram
        (for some architectures this is further segmented into
        regular memory, extended memory, and so on), backing
        store for virtual memory (`swap space').

        This table is intended to be a useful diagnostic for
        `out of memory' and `out of buffers' types of
        failures.  In addition, it can be a useful performance
        monitoring tool for tracking memory, disk, or buffer
        usage."
    ::= { hrStorage 3 }

hrStorageEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     HrStorageEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A (conceptual) entry for one logical storage area on
        the host.  As an example, an instance of the
        hrStorageType object might be named hrStorageType.3"
    INDEX { hrStorageIndex }
    ::= { hrStorageTable 1 }





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 14]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


HrStorageEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        hrStorageIndex               Integer32,
        hrStorageType                AutonomousType,
        hrStorageDescr               DisplayString,
        hrStorageAllocationUnits     Integer32,
        hrStorageSize                Integer32,
        hrStorageUsed                Integer32,
        hrStorageAllocationFailures  Counter32
    }

hrStorageIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A unique value for each logical storage area
        contained by the host."
    ::= { hrStorageEntry 1 }

hrStorageType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     AutonomousType
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The type of storage represented by this entry."
    ::= { hrStorageEntry 2 }

hrStorageDescr OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A description of the type and instance of the storage
        described by this entry."
    ::= { hrStorageEntry 3 }















Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 15]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


hrStorageAllocationUnits OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The size, in bytes, of the data objects allocated
        from this pool.  If this entry is monitoring sectors,
        blocks, buffers, or packets, for example, this number
        will commonly be greater than one.  Otherwise this
        number will typically be one."
    ::= { hrStorageEntry 4 }

hrStorageSize OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The size of the storage represented by this entry, in
        units of hrStorageAllocationUnits. This object is
        writable to allow remote configuration of the size of
        the storage area in those cases where such an
        operation makes sense and is possible on the
        underlying system. For example, the amount of main
        memory allocated to a buffer pool might be modified or
        the amount of disk space allocated to virtual memory
        might be modified."
    ::= { hrStorageEntry 5 }

hrStorageUsed OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The amount of the storage represented by this entry
        that is allocated, in units of
        hrStorageAllocationUnits."
    ::= { hrStorageEntry 6 }

hrStorageAllocationFailures OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of requests for storage represented by
        this entry that could not be honored due to not enough





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 16]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


        storage.  It should be noted that as this object has a
        SYNTAX of Counter32, that it does not have a defined
        initial value.  However, it is recommended that this
        object be initialized to zero, even though management
        stations must not depend on such an initialization."
    ::= { hrStorageEntry 7 }












































Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 17]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


-- The Host Resources Device Group
--
-- The device group is useful for identifying and diagnosing the
-- devices on a system.  The hrDeviceTable contains common
-- information for any type of device.  In addition, some devices
-- have device-specific tables for more detailed information.  More
-- such tables may be defined in the future for other device types.

-- Registration point for device types, for use with hrDeviceType.
-- These are defined in the HOST-RESOURCES-TYPES module.
hrDeviceTypes             OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hrDevice 1 }







































Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 18]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


hrDeviceTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF HrDeviceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The (conceptual) table of devices contained by the
        host."
    ::= { hrDevice 2 }

hrDeviceEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     HrDeviceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A (conceptual) entry for one device contained by the
        host.  As an example, an instance of the hrDeviceType
        object might be named hrDeviceType.3"
    INDEX { hrDeviceIndex }
    ::= { hrDeviceTable 1 }

HrDeviceEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        hrDeviceIndex           Integer32,
        hrDeviceType            AutonomousType,
        hrDeviceDescr           DisplayString,
        hrDeviceID              ProductID,
        hrDeviceStatus          INTEGER,
        hrDeviceErrors          Counter32
    }

hrDeviceIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A unique value for each device contained by the host.
        The value for each device must remain constant at
        least from one re-initialization of the agent to the
        next re-initialization."
    ::= { hrDeviceEntry 1 }

hrDeviceType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     AutonomousType
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 19]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


        "An indication of the type of device.

        If this value is
        `hrDeviceProcessor { hrDeviceTypes 3 }' then an entry
        exists in the hrProcessorTable which corresponds to
        this device.

        If this value is
        `hrDeviceNetwork { hrDeviceTypes 4 }', then an entry
        exists in the hrNetworkTable which corresponds to this
        device.

        If this value is
        `hrDevicePrinter { hrDeviceTypes 5 }', then an entry
        exists in the hrPrinterTable which corresponds to this
        device.

        If this value is
        `hrDeviceDiskStorage { hrDeviceTypes 6 }', then an
        entry exists in the hrDiskStorageTable which
        corresponds to this device."
    ::= { hrDeviceEntry 2 }

hrDeviceDescr OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     DisplayString (SIZE (0..64))
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A textual description of this device, including the
        device's manufacturer and revision, and optionally,
        its serial number."
    ::= { hrDeviceEntry 3 }

hrDeviceID OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     ProductID
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The product ID for this device."
    ::= { hrDeviceEntry 4 }

hrDeviceStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                   unknown(1),
                   running(2),





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 20]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


                   warning(3),
                   testing(4),
                   down(5)
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The current operational state of the device described
        by this row of the table.  A value unknown(1)
        indicates that the current state of the device is
        unknown.  running(2) indicates that the device is up
        and running and that no unusual error conditions are
        known.  The warning(3) state indicates that agent has
        been informed of an unusual error condition by the
        operational software (e.g., a disk device driver) but
        that the device is still 'operational'.  An example
        would be a high number of soft errors on a disk.  A
        value of testing(4), indicates that the device is not
        available for use because it is in the testing state.
        The state of down(5) is used only when the agent has
        been informed that the device is not available for any
        use."
    ::= { hrDeviceEntry 5 }

hrDeviceErrors OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of errors detected on this device.  It
        should be noted that as this object has a SYNTAX of
        Counter32, that it does not have a defined initial
        value.  However, it is recommended that this object be
        initialized to zero, even though management stations
        must not depend on such an initialization."
    ::= { hrDeviceEntry 6 }














Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 21]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


hrProcessorTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF HrProcessorEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The (conceptual) table of processors contained by the
        host.

        Note that this table is potentially sparse: a
        (conceptual) entry exists only if the correspondent
        value of the hrDeviceType object is
        `hrDeviceProcessor'."
    ::= { hrDevice 3 }

hrProcessorEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     HrProcessorEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A (conceptual) entry for one processor contained by
        the host.  The hrDeviceIndex in the index represents
        the entry in the hrDeviceTable that corresponds to the
        hrProcessorEntry.

        As an example of how objects in this table are named,
        an instance of the hrProcessorFrwID object might be
        named hrProcessorFrwID.3"
    INDEX { hrDeviceIndex }
    ::= { hrProcessorTable 1 }





















Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 22]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


HrProcessorEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        hrProcessorFrwID            ProductID,
        hrProcessorLoad             Integer32
    }

hrProcessorFrwID OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     ProductID
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The product ID of the firmware associated with the
        processor."
    ::= { hrProcessorEntry 1 }

hrProcessorLoad OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..100)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The average, over the last minute, of the percentage
        of time that this processor was not idle.
        Implementations may approximate this one minute
        smoothing period if necessary."
    ::= { hrProcessorEntry 2 }


























Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 23]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


hrNetworkTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF HrNetworkEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The (conceptual) table of network devices contained
        by the host.

        Note that this table is potentially sparse: a
        (conceptual) entry exists only if the correspondent
        value of the hrDeviceType object is
        `hrDeviceNetwork'."
    ::= { hrDevice 4 }

hrNetworkEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     HrNetworkEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A (conceptual) entry for one network device contained
        by the host.  The hrDeviceIndex in the index
        represents the entry in the hrDeviceTable that
        corresponds to the hrNetworkEntry.

        As an example of how objects in this table are named,
        an instance of the hrNetworkIfIndex object might be
        named hrNetworkIfIndex.3"
    INDEX { hrDeviceIndex }
    ::= { hrNetworkTable 1 }

HrNetworkEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        hrNetworkIfIndex    InterfaceIndexOrZero
    }

hrNetworkIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InterfaceIndexOrZero
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value of ifIndex which corresponds to this
        network device. If this device is not represented in
        the ifTable, then this value shall be zero."
    ::= { hrNetworkEntry 1 }







Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 24]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


hrPrinterTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF HrPrinterEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The (conceptual) table of printers local to the host.

        Note that this table is potentially sparse: a
        (conceptual) entry exists only if the correspondent
        value of the hrDeviceType object is
        `hrDevicePrinter'."
    ::= { hrDevice 5 }

hrPrinterEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     HrPrinterEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A (conceptual) entry for one printer local to the
        host.  The hrDeviceIndex in the index represents the
        entry in the hrDeviceTable that corresponds to the
        hrPrinterEntry.

        As an example of how objects in this table are named,
        an instance of the hrPrinterStatus object might be
        named hrPrinterStatus.3"
    INDEX { hrDeviceIndex }
    ::= { hrPrinterTable 1 }

HrPrinterEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        hrPrinterStatus             INTEGER,
        hrPrinterDetectedErrorState OCTET STRING
    }

















Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 25]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


hrPrinterStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                   other(1),
                   unknown(2),
                   idle(3),
                   printing(4),
                   warmup(5)
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The current status of this printer device.  When in
        the idle(3), printing(4), or warmup(5) state, the
        corresponding hrDeviceStatus should be running(2) or
        warning(3).  When in the unknown(2) state, the
        corresponding hrDeviceStatus should be unknown(1)."
    ::= { hrPrinterEntry 1 }

































Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 26]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


hrPrinterDetectedErrorState OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     OCTET STRING
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "This object represents any error conditions detected
        by the printer.  The error conditions are encoded as
        bits in an octet string, with the following
        definitions:

             Condition         Bit #    hrDeviceStatus

             lowPaper              0        warning(3)
             noPaper               1        down(5)
             lowToner              2        warning(3)
             noToner               3        down(5)
             doorOpen              4        down(5)
             jammed                5        down(5)
             offline               6        down(5)
             serviceRequested      7        warning(3)
             inputTrayMissing      8        warning(3)
             outputTrayMissing     9        warning(3)
             markerSupplyMissing  10        warning(3)
             outputNearFull       11        warning(3)
             outputFull           12        warning(3)
             inputTrayEmpty       13        warning(3)
             overduePreventMaint  14        warning(3)

        The hrDeviceStatus column shows the hrDeviceStatus
        which is typically appropriate when such an error
        condition exists. If multiple conditions are
        simultaneously detected and the hrDeviceStatus would
        not otherwise be unknown(1) or testing(4), the
        hrDeviceStatus shall correspond to the worst state of
        those indicated, where down(5) is worse than
        warning(3) which is worse than running(2).

        Bits are numbered starting with the most significant
        bit of the first byte being bit 0, the least
        significant bit of the first byte being bit 7, the
        most significant bit of the second byte being bit 8,
        and so on.  A one bit encodes that the condition was
        detected, while a zero bit encodes that the condition
        was not detected.






Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 27]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


        This object is useful for alerting an operator to
        specific warning or error conditions that may occur,
        especially those requiring human intervention."
    ::= { hrPrinterEntry 2 }














































Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 28]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


hrDiskStorageTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF HrDiskStorageEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The (conceptual) table of long-term storage devices
        contained by the host.  In particular, disk devices
        accessed remotely over a network are not included
        here.

        Note that this table is potentially sparse: a
        (conceptual) entry exists only if the correspondent
        value of the hrDeviceType object is
        `hrDeviceDiskStorage'."
    ::= { hrDevice 6 }

hrDiskStorageEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     HrDiskStorageEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A (conceptual) entry for one long-term storage device
        contained by the host.  The hrDeviceIndex in the index
        represents the entry in the hrDeviceTable that
        corresponds to the hrDiskStorageEntry. As an example,
        an instance of the hrDiskStorageCapacity object might
        be named hrDiskStorageCapacity.3"
    INDEX { hrDeviceIndex }
    ::= { hrDiskStorageTable 1 }

HrDiskStorageEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        hrDiskStorageAccess         INTEGER,
        hrDiskStorageMedia          INTEGER,
        hrDiskStorageRemoveble      TruthValue,
        hrDiskStorageCapacity       KBytes
    }

hrDiskStorageAccess OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                   readWrite(1),
                   readOnly(2)
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 29]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


        "An indication if this long-term storage device is
        readable and writable or only readable.  This should
        reflect the media type, any write-protect mechanism,
        and any device configuration that affects the entire
        device."
    ::= { hrDiskStorageEntry 1 }

hrDiskStorageMedia OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                   other(1),
                   unknown(2),
                   hardDisk(3),
                   floppyDisk(4),
                   opticalDiskROM(5),
                   opticalDiskWORM(6),     -- Write Once Read Many
                   opticalDiskRW(7),
                   ramDisk(8)
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "An indication of the type of media used in this long-
        term storage device."
    ::= { hrDiskStorageEntry 2 }

hrDiskStorageRemoveble OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "Denotes whether or not the disk media may be removed
        from the drive."
    ::= { hrDiskStorageEntry 3 }

hrDiskStorageCapacity OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     KBytes
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The total size for this long-term storage device. If
        the media is removable and is currently removed, this
        value should be zero."
    ::= { hrDiskStorageEntry 4 }







Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 30]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


hrPartitionTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF HrPartitionEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The (conceptual) table of partitions for long-term
        storage devices contained by the host.  In particular,
        partitions accessed remotely over a network are not
        included here."
    ::= { hrDevice 7 }

hrPartitionEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     HrPartitionEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A (conceptual) entry for one partition.  The
        hrDeviceIndex in the index represents the entry in the
        hrDeviceTable that corresponds to the
        hrPartitionEntry.

        As an example of how objects in this table are named,
        an instance of the hrPartitionSize object might be
        named hrPartitionSize.3.1"
    INDEX { hrDeviceIndex, hrPartitionIndex }
    ::= { hrPartitionTable 1 }

HrPartitionEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        hrPartitionIndex                Integer32,
        hrPartitionLabel                InternationalDisplayString,
        hrPartitionID                   OCTET STRING,
        hrPartitionSize                 KBytes,
        hrPartitionFSIndex              Integer32
    }

hrPartitionIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A unique value for each partition on this long-term
        storage device.  The value for each long-term storage
        device must remain constant at least from one re-
        initialization of the agent to the next re-
        initialization."





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 31]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


    ::= { hrPartitionEntry 1 }

hrPartitionLabel OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InternationalDisplayString (SIZE (0..128))
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A textual description of this partition."
    ::= { hrPartitionEntry 2 }

hrPartitionID OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     OCTET STRING
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A descriptor which uniquely represents this partition
        to the responsible operating system.  On some systems,
        this might take on a binary representation."
    ::= { hrPartitionEntry 3 }

hrPartitionSize OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     KBytes
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The size of this partition."
    ::= { hrPartitionEntry 4 }

hrPartitionFSIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The index of the file system mounted on this
        partition.  If no file system is mounted on this
        partition, then this value shall be zero.  Note that
        multiple partitions may point to one file system,
        denoting that that file system resides on those
        partitions.  Multiple file systems may not reside on
        one partition."
    ::= { hrPartitionEntry 5 }









Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 32]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


-- The File System Table

-- Registration point for popular File System types,
-- for use with hrFSType. These are defined in the
-- HOST-RESOURCES-TYPES module.
hrFSTypes               OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hrDevice 9 }

hrFSTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF HrFSEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The (conceptual) table of file systems local to this
        host or remotely mounted from a file server.  File
        systems that are in only one user's environment on a
        multi-user system will not be included in this table."
    ::= { hrDevice 8 }

hrFSEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     HrFSEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A (conceptual) entry for one file system local to
        this host or remotely mounted from a file server.
        File systems that are in only one user's environment
        on a multi-user system will not be included in this
        table.

        As an example of how objects in this table are named,
        an instance of the hrFSMountPoint object might be
        named hrFSMountPoint.3"
    INDEX { hrFSIndex }
    ::= { hrFSTable 1 }

HrFSEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        hrFSIndex                   Integer32,
        hrFSMountPoint              InternationalDisplayString,
        hrFSRemoteMountPoint        InternationalDisplayString,
        hrFSType                    AutonomousType,
        hrFSAccess                  INTEGER,
        hrFSBootable                TruthValue,
        hrFSStorageIndex            Integer32,
        hrFSLastFullBackupDate      DateAndTime,
        hrFSLastPartialBackupDate   DateAndTime





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 33]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


    }

hrFSIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A unique value for each file system local to this
        host.  The value for each file system must remain
        constant at least from one re-initialization of the
        agent to the next re-initialization."
    ::= { hrFSEntry 1 }

hrFSMountPoint OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InternationalDisplayString (SIZE(0..128))
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The path name of the root of this file system."
    ::= { hrFSEntry 2 }

hrFSRemoteMountPoint OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InternationalDisplayString (SIZE(0..128))
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A description of the name and/or address of the
        server that this file system is mounted from.  This
        may also include parameters such as the mount point on
        the remote file system.  If this is not a remote file
        system, this string should have a length of zero."
    ::= { hrFSEntry 3 }

hrFSType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     AutonomousType
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value of this object identifies the type of this
        file system."
    ::= { hrFSEntry 4 }

hrFSAccess OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                   readWrite(1),





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 34]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


                   readOnly(2)
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "An indication if this file system is logically
        configured by the operating system to be readable and
        writable or only readable.  This does not represent
        any local access-control policy, except one that is
        applied to the file system as a whole."
    ::= { hrFSEntry 5 }

hrFSBootable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A flag indicating whether this file system is
        bootable."
    ::= { hrFSEntry 6 }

hrFSStorageIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The index of the hrStorageEntry that represents
        information about this file system.  If there is no
        such information available, then this value shall be
        zero.  The relevant storage entry will be useful in
        tracking the percent usage of this file system and
        diagnosing errors that may occur when it runs out of
        space."
    ::= { hrFSEntry 7 }

hrFSLastFullBackupDate OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The last date at which this complete file system was
        copied to another storage device for backup.  This
        information is useful for ensuring that backups are
        being performed regularly.






Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 35]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


        If this information is not known, then this variable
        shall have the value corresponding to January 1, year
        0000, 00:00:00.0, which is encoded as
        (hex)'00 00 01 01 00 00 00 00'."
    ::= { hrFSEntry 8 }

hrFSLastPartialBackupDate OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The last date at which a portion of this file system
        was copied to another storage device for backup.  This
        information is useful for ensuring that backups are
        being performed regularly.

        If this information is not known, then this variable
        shall have the value corresponding to January 1, year
        0000, 00:00:00.0, which is encoded as
        (hex)'00 00 01 01 00 00 00 00'."
    ::= { hrFSEntry 9 }





























Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 36]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


-- The Host Resources Running Software Group
--
-- The hrSWRunTable contains an entry for each distinct piece of
-- software that is running or loaded into physical or virtual
-- memory in preparation for running.  This includes the host's
-- operating system, device drivers, and applications.

hrSWOSIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value of the hrSWRunIndex for the hrSWRunEntry
        that represents the primary operating system running
        on this host.  This object is useful for quickly and
        uniquely identifying that primary operating system."
    ::= { hrSWRun 1 }

hrSWRunTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF HrSWRunEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The (conceptual) table of software running on the
        host."
    ::= { hrSWRun 2 }

hrSWRunEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     HrSWRunEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A (conceptual) entry for one piece of software
        running on the host Note that because the installed
        software table only contains information for software
        stored locally on this host, not every piece of
        running software will be found in the installed
        software table.  This is true of software that was
        loaded and run from a non-local source, such as a
        network-mounted file system.

        As an example of how objects in this table are named,
        an instance of the hrSWRunName object might be named
        hrSWRunName.1287"
    INDEX { hrSWRunIndex }





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 37]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


    ::= { hrSWRunTable 1 }

HrSWRunEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        hrSWRunIndex       Integer32,
        hrSWRunName        InternationalDisplayString,
        hrSWRunID          ProductID,
        hrSWRunPath        InternationalDisplayString,
        hrSWRunParameters  InternationalDisplayString,
        hrSWRunType        INTEGER,
        hrSWRunStatus      INTEGER
    }

hrSWRunIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A unique value for each piece of software running on
        the host.  Wherever possible, this should be the
        system's native, unique identification number."
    ::= { hrSWRunEntry 1 }

hrSWRunName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InternationalDisplayString (SIZE (0..64))
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A textual description of this running piece of
        software, including the manufacturer, revision,  and
        the name by which it is commonly known.  If this
        software was installed locally, this should be the
        same string as used in the corresponding
        hrSWInstalledName."
    ::= { hrSWRunEntry 2 }

hrSWRunID OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     ProductID
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The product ID of this running piece of software."
    ::= { hrSWRunEntry 3 }

hrSWRunPath OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InternationalDisplayString (SIZE(0..128))





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 38]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A description of the location on long-term storage
        (e.g. a disk drive) from which this software was
        loaded."
    ::= { hrSWRunEntry 4 }

hrSWRunParameters OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InternationalDisplayString (SIZE(0..128))
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A description of the parameters supplied to this
        software when it was initially loaded."
    ::= { hrSWRunEntry 5 }

hrSWRunType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                   unknown(1),
                   operatingSystem(2),
                   deviceDriver(3),
                   application(4)
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The type of this software."
    ::= { hrSWRunEntry 6 }

hrSWRunStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                   running(1),
                   runnable(2),    -- waiting for resource
                                   -- (i.e., CPU, memory, IO)
                   notRunnable(3), -- loaded but waiting for event
                   invalid(4)      -- not loaded
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-write
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The status of this running piece of software.
        Setting this value to invalid(4) shall cause this
        software to stop running and to be unloaded. Sets to
        other values are not valid."





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 39]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


    ::= { hrSWRunEntry 7 }

















































Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 40]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


-- The Host Resources Running Software Performance Group
--
-- The hrSWRunPerfTable contains an entry corresponding to
-- each entry in the hrSWRunTable.

hrSWRunPerfTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF HrSWRunPerfEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The (conceptual) table of running software
        performance metrics."
    ::= { hrSWRunPerf 1 }

hrSWRunPerfEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     HrSWRunPerfEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A (conceptual) entry containing software performance
        metrics.  As an example, an instance of the
        hrSWRunPerfCPU object might be named
        hrSWRunPerfCPU.1287"
    AUGMENTS { hrSWRunEntry }  -- This table augments information in
                               -- the hrSWRunTable.
    ::= { hrSWRunPerfTable 1 }

HrSWRunPerfEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        hrSWRunPerfCPU          Integer32,
        hrSWRunPerfMem          KBytes
}

hrSWRunPerfCPU OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The number of centi-seconds of the total system's CPU
        resources consumed by this process.  Note that on a
        multi-processor system, this value may increment by
        more than one centi-second in one centi-second of real
        (wall clock) time."
    ::= { hrSWRunPerfEntry 1 }

hrSWRunPerfMem OBJECT-TYPE





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 41]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


    SYNTAX     KBytes
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The total amount of real system memory allocated to
        this process."
    ::= { hrSWRunPerfEntry 2 }











































Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 42]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


-- The Host Resources Installed Software Group
--
-- The hrSWInstalledTable contains an entry for each piece
-- of software installed in long-term storage (e.g. a disk
-- drive) locally on this host.  Note that this does not
-- include software loadable remotely from a network
-- server.
--
-- Different implementations may track software in varying
-- ways. For example, while some implementations may track
-- executable files as distinct pieces of software, other
-- implementations may use other strategies such as keeping
-- track of software "packages" (e.g., related groups of files)
-- or keeping track of system or application "patches".
--
-- This table is useful for identifying and inventorying
-- software on a host and for diagnosing incompatibility
-- and version mismatch problems between various pieces
-- of hardware and software.

hrSWInstalledLastChange OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value of sysUpTime when an entry in the
        hrSWInstalledTable was last added, renamed, or
        deleted.  Because this table is likely to contain many
        entries, polling of this object allows a management
        station to determine when re-downloading of the table
        might be useful."
    ::= { hrSWInstalled 1 }

hrSWInstalledLastUpdateTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The value of sysUpTime when the hrSWInstalledTable
        was last completely updated.  Because caching of this
        data will be a popular implementation strategy,
        retrieval of this object allows a management station
        to obtain a guarantee that no data in this table is
        older than the indicated time."
    ::= { hrSWInstalled 2 }





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 43]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


hrSWInstalledTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF HrSWInstalledEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The (conceptual) table of software installed on this
        host."
    ::= { hrSWInstalled 3 }

hrSWInstalledEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     HrSWInstalledEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A (conceptual) entry for a piece of software
        installed on this host.

        As an example of how objects in this table are named,
        an instance of the hrSWInstalledName object might be
        named hrSWInstalledName.96"
    INDEX { hrSWInstalledIndex }
    ::= { hrSWInstalledTable 1 }

HrSWInstalledEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
        hrSWInstalledIndex       Integer32,
        hrSWInstalledName        InternationalDisplayString,
        hrSWInstalledID          ProductID,
        hrSWInstalledType        INTEGER,
        hrSWInstalledDate        DateAndTime
}

hrSWInstalledIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (1..2147483647)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A unique value for each piece of software installed
        on the host.  This value shall be in the range from 1
        to the number of pieces of software installed on the
        host."
    ::= { hrSWInstalledEntry 1 }

hrSWInstalledName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     InternationalDisplayString (SIZE (0..64))
    MAX-ACCESS read-only





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 44]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "A textual description of this installed piece of
        software, including the manufacturer, revision, the
        name by which it is commonly known, and optionally,
        its serial number."
    ::= { hrSWInstalledEntry 2 }

hrSWInstalledID OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     ProductID
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The product ID of this installed piece of software."
    ::= { hrSWInstalledEntry 3 }

hrSWInstalledType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER {
                   unknown(1),
                   operatingSystem(2),
                   deviceDriver(3),
                   application(4)
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The type of this software."
    ::= { hrSWInstalledEntry 4 }

hrSWInstalledDate OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The last-modification date of this application as it
        would appear in a directory listing.

        If this information is not known, then this variable
        shall have the value corresponding to January 1, year
        0000, 00:00:00.0, which is encoded as
        (hex)'00 00 01 01 00 00 00 00'."
    ::= { hrSWInstalledEntry 5 }








Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 45]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


-- Conformance information

hrMIBCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hrMIBAdminInfo 2 }
hrMIBGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hrMIBAdminInfo 3 }

-- Compliance Statements
hrMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The requirements for conformance to the Host Resources MIB."
    MODULE -- this module
      MANDATORY-GROUPS { hrSystemGroup, hrStorageGroup, hrDeviceGroup }

      OBJECT hrSystemDate
          MIN-ACCESS read-only
          DESCRIPTION
              "Write access is not required."

      OBJECT hrSystemInitialLoadDevice
          MIN-ACCESS read-only
          DESCRIPTION
              "Write access is not required."

      OBJECT hrSystemInitialLoadParameters
          MIN-ACCESS read-only
          DESCRIPTION
              "Write access is not required."

      OBJECT hrStorageSize
          MIN-ACCESS read-only
          DESCRIPTION
              "Write access is not required."

      OBJECT hrFSLastFullBackupDate
          MIN-ACCESS read-only
          DESCRIPTION
              "Write access is not required."

      OBJECT hrFSLastPartialBackupDate
          MIN-ACCESS read-only
          DESCRIPTION
              "Write access is not required."

      GROUP hrSWRunGroup
          DESCRIPTION





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 46]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


              "The Running Software Group. Implementation
              of this group is mandatory only when the
              hrSWRunPerfGroup is implemented."

      OBJECT hrSWRunStatus
          MIN-ACCESS read-only
          DESCRIPTION
              "Write access is not required."

      GROUP hrSWRunPerfGroup
          DESCRIPTION
              "The Running Software Performance Group.
              Implementation of this group is at the discretion
              of the implementor."

      GROUP hrSWInstalledGroup
          DESCRIPTION
              "The Installed Software Group.
              Implementation of this group is at the discretion
              of the implementor."

    ::= { hrMIBCompliances 1 }

    hrSystemGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
            hrSystemUptime, hrSystemDate,
            hrSystemInitialLoadDevice,
            hrSystemInitialLoadParameters,
            hrSystemNumUsers, hrSystemProcesses,
            hrSystemMaxProcesses
        }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The Host Resources System Group."
        ::= { hrMIBGroups 1 }

    hrStorageGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
            hrMemorySize, hrStorageIndex, hrStorageType,
            hrStorageDescr, hrStorageAllocationUnits,
            hrStorageSize, hrStorageUsed,
            hrStorageAllocationFailures
        }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 47]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


            "The Host Resources Storage Group."
        ::= { hrMIBGroups 2 }

    hrDeviceGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
            hrDeviceIndex, hrDeviceType, hrDeviceDescr,
            hrDeviceID, hrDeviceStatus, hrDeviceErrors,
            hrProcessorFrwID, hrProcessorLoad,
            hrNetworkIfIndex, hrPrinterStatus,
            hrPrinterDetectedErrorState,
            hrDiskStorageAccess, hrDiskStorageMedia,
            hrDiskStorageRemoveble, hrDiskStorageCapacity,
            hrPartitionIndex, hrPartitionLabel,
            hrPartitionID, hrPartitionSize,
            hrPartitionFSIndex, hrFSIndex, hrFSMountPoint,
            hrFSRemoteMountPoint, hrFSType, hrFSAccess,
            hrFSBootable, hrFSStorageIndex,
            hrFSLastFullBackupDate,
            hrFSLastPartialBackupDate
        }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The Host Resources Device Group."
        ::= { hrMIBGroups 3 }

    hrSWRunGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {
            hrSWOSIndex, hrSWRunIndex, hrSWRunName,
            hrSWRunID, hrSWRunPath, hrSWRunParameters,
            hrSWRunType, hrSWRunStatus
        }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The Host Resources Running Software Group."
        ::= { hrMIBGroups 4 }

    hrSWRunPerfGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS { hrSWRunPerfCPU, hrSWRunPerfMem }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The Host Resources Running Software
            Performance Group."
        ::= { hrMIBGroups 5 }

    hrSWInstalledGroup OBJECT-GROUP





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 48]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


        OBJECTS {
            hrSWInstalledLastChange,
            hrSWInstalledLastUpdateTime,
            hrSWInstalledIndex, hrSWInstalledName,
            hrSWInstalledID, hrSWInstalledType,
            hrSWInstalledDate
        }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The Host Resources Installed Software Group."
        ::= { hrMIBGroups 6 }

END





































Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 49]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


5.  Type Definitions

HOST-RESOURCES-TYPES DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-IDENTITY        FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    hrMIBAdminInfo, hrStorage, hrDevice     FROM HOST-RESOURCES-MIB;

hostResourcesTypesModule MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9907312200Z"    -- 31 July, 1999
    ORGANIZATION "IETF Host Resources MIB Working Group"
    CONTACT-INFO
        "Steve Waldbusser
        Postal: International Network Services (INS)
                1213 Innsbruck Dr.
                Sunnyvale, CA 94089
                USA
        Phone: 650-318-1251
        Fax:   650-318-1633
        Email: waldbusser@ins.com

        In addition, the Host Resources MIB mailing list is dedicated to
        discussion of this MIB. To join the mailing list, send a request
        message to hostmib-request@andrew.cmu.edu. The mailing list
        address is hostmib@andrew.cmu.edu."
    DESCRIPTION
        "This MIB module registers type definitions for
        storage types, device types, and file system types."
    REVISION "9907302200Z"    -- 30 July, 1999
    DESCRIPTION
        "The original version of this module."
    ::= { hrMIBAdminInfo 4 }

-- Registrations for some storage types, for use with hrStorageType
hrStorageTypes          OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hrStorage 1 }

hrStorageOther OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The storage type identifier used when no other defined
        type is appropriate."
    ::= { hrStorageTypes 1 }

hrStorageRam OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 50]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


    DESCRIPTION
        "The storage type identifier used for RAM."
    ::= { hrStorageTypes 2 }

hrStorageVirtualMemory OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The storage type identifier used for virtual memory,
        temporary storage of swapped or paged memory."
    ::= { hrStorageTypes 3 }

hrStorageFixedDisk OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The storage type identifier used for non-removable
        rigid rotating magnetic storage devices."
    ::= { hrStorageTypes 4 }

hrStorageRemovableDisk OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The storage type identifier used for removable rigid
        rotating magnetic storage devices."
    ::= { hrStorageTypes 5 }

hrStorageFloppyDisk OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The storage type identifier used for non-rigid rotating
        magnetic storage devices."
    ::= { hrStorageTypes 6 }

hrStorageCompactDisc OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The storage type identifier used for read-only rotating
        optical storage devices."
    ::= { hrStorageTypes 7 }

hrStorageRamDisk OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The storage type identifier used for a file system that
        is stored in RAM."
    ::= { hrStorageTypes 8 }





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 51]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


hrStorageFlashMemory OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The storage type identifier used for flash memory."
    ::= { hrStorageTypes 9 }

hrStorageNetworkDisk OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The storage type identifier used for a
        networked file system."
    ::= { hrStorageTypes 10 }

-- Registrations for some device types, for use with hrDeviceType
hrDeviceTypes             OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hrDevice 1 }

hrDeviceOther OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The device type identifier used when no other defined
        type is appropriate."
    ::= { hrDeviceTypes 1 }

hrDeviceUnknown OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The device type identifier used when the device type is
        unknown."
    ::= { hrDeviceTypes 2 }

hrDeviceProcessor OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The device type identifier used for a CPU."
    ::= { hrDeviceTypes 3 }

hrDeviceNetwork OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The device type identifier used for a network interface."
    ::= { hrDeviceTypes 4 }

hrDevicePrinter OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 52]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


        "The device type identifier used for a printer."
    ::= { hrDeviceTypes 5 }

hrDeviceDiskStorage OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The device type identifier used for a disk drive."
    ::= { hrDeviceTypes 6 }

hrDeviceVideo OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The device type identifier used for a video device."
    ::= { hrDeviceTypes 10 }

hrDeviceAudio OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The device type identifier used for an audio device."
    ::= { hrDeviceTypes 11 }

hrDeviceCoprocessor OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The device type identifier used for a co-processor."
    ::= { hrDeviceTypes 12 }

hrDeviceKeyboard OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The device type identifier used for a keyboard device."
    ::= { hrDeviceTypes 13 }

hrDeviceModem OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The device type identifier used for a modem."
    ::= { hrDeviceTypes 14 }

hrDeviceParallelPort OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The device type identifier used for a parallel port."
    ::= { hrDeviceTypes 15 }






Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 53]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


hrDevicePointing OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The device type identifier used for a pointing device
        (e.g., a mouse)."
    ::= { hrDeviceTypes 16 }

hrDeviceSerialPort OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The device type identifier used for a serial port."
    ::= { hrDeviceTypes 17 }

hrDeviceTape OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The device type identifier used for a tape storage device."
    ::= { hrDeviceTypes 18 }

hrDeviceClock OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The device type identifier used for a clock device."
    ::= { hrDeviceTypes 19 }

hrDeviceVolatileMemory OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The device type identifier used for a volatile memory
        storage device."
    ::= { hrDeviceTypes 20 }

hrDeviceNonVolatileMemory OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The device type identifier used for a non-volatile memory
        storage device."
    ::= { hrDeviceTypes 21 }

-- Registrations for some popular File System types,
-- for use with hrFSType.
hrFSTypes               OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { hrDevice 9 }

hrFSOther OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 54]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used when no other
        defined type is appropriate."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 1 }

hrFSUnknown OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used when the type of
        file system is unknown."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 2 }

hrFSBerkeleyFFS OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the
        Berkeley Fast File System."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 3 }

hrFSSys5FS OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the
        System V File System."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 4 }

hrFSFat OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for
        DOS's FAT file system."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 5 }

hrFSHPFS OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for OS/2's
        High Performance File System."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 6 }

hrFSHFS OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the
        Macintosh Hierarchical File System."





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 55]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


    ::= { hrFSTypes 7 }

hrFSMFS OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the
        Macintosh File System."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 8 }

hrFSNTFS OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the
        Windows NT File System."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 9 }

hrFSVNode OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the
        VNode File System."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 10 }

hrFSJournaled OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the
        Journaled File System."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 11 }

hrFSiso9660 OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the
        ISO 9660 File System for CD's."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 12 }

hrFSRockRidge OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the
        RockRidge File System for CD's."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 13 }

hrFSNFS OBJECT-IDENTITY





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 56]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the
        NFS File System."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 14 }

hrFSNetware OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the
        Netware File System."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 15 }

hrFSAFS OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the
        Andrew File System."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 16 }

hrFSDFS OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the
        OSF DCE Distributed File System."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 17 }

hrFSAppleshare OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the
        AppleShare File System."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 18 }

hrFSRFS OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the
        RFS File System."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 19 }

hrFSDGCFS OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 57]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


        Data General DGCFS."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 20 }

hrFSBFS OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the
        SVR4 Boot File System."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 21 }

hrFSFAT32 OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the
        Windows FAT32 File System."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 22 }

hrFSLinuxExt2 OBJECT-IDENTITY
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
        "The file system type identifier used for the
        Linux EXT2 File System."
    ::= { hrFSTypes 23 }

END

























Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 58]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


6.  Security Considerations

There are a number of management objects defined in this MIB
that have a MAX-ACCESS clause of read-write.  Such objects may
be considered sensitive or vulnerable in some network
environments.  The support for SET operations in a non-secure
environment without proper protection can have a negative
effect on system operations.


There are a number of managed objects in this MIB that may
contain sensitive information. The objects in the Running
Software Group list information about running software on the
system (including the operating system software and version).
Some may wish not to disclose to others what software they are
running. Further, an inventory of the running software and
versions may be helpful to an attacker who hopes to exploit
software bugs in certain applications. The same issues exist
for the objects in the Installed Software Group.

It is thus important to control even GET access to these
objects and possibly to even encrypt the values of these
object when sending them over the network via SNMP.  Not all
versions of SNMP provide features for such a secure
environment.


SNMPv1 by itself is not a secure environment.  Even if the
network itself is secure (for example by using IPSec), even
then, there is no control as to who on the secure network is
allowed to access and GET/SET (read/change/create/delete) the
objects in this MIB.

It is recommended that the implementers consider the security
features as provided by the SNMPv3 framework.  Specifically,
the use of the User-based Security Model RFC 2574 [RFC2574]
and the View-based Access Control Model RFC 2575 [RFC2575] is
recommended.

It is then a customer/user responsibility to ensure that the
SNMP entity giving access to an instance of this MIB, is
properly configured to give access to the objects only to
those principals (users) that have legitimate rights to indeed
GET or SET (change/create/delete) them.






Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 59]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


7.  References

[RFC2571]   Harrington, D., Presuhn, R., and B. Wijnen, "An
            Architecture for Describing SNMP Management
            Frameworks", RFC 2571, April 1999

[RFC1155]   Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Structure and
            Identification of Management Information for
            TCP/IP-based Internets", STD 16, RFC 1155, May
            1990

[RFC1212]   Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Concise MIB
            Definitions", STD 16, RFC 1212, March 1991

[RFC1215]   M. Rose, "A Convention for Defining Traps for use
            with the SNMP", RFC 1215, March 1991

[RFC2578]   McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J.,
            Case, J., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Structure
            of Management Information Version 2 (SMIv2)", STD
            58, RFC 2578, April 1999

[RFC2579]   McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J.,
            Case, J., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Textual
            Conventions for SMIv2", STD 58, RFC 2579, April
            1999

[RFC2580]   McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J.,
            Case, J., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser,
            "Conformance Statements for SMIv2", STD 58, RFC
            2580, April 1999

[RFC1157]   Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J.
            Davin, "Simple Network Management Protocol", STD
            15, RFC 1157, May 1990.

[RFC1901]   Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S.
            Waldbusser, "Introduction to Community-based
            SNMPv2", RFC 1901, January 1996.

[RFC1906]   Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S.
            Waldbusser, "Transport Mappings for Version 2 of
            the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)",
            RFC 1906, January 1996.






Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 60]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


[RFC2572]   Case, J., Harrington D., Presuhn R., and B.
            Wijnen, "Message Processing and Dispatching for
            the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMP)",
            RFC 2572, April 1999

[RFC2574]   Blumenthal, U., and B. Wijnen, "User-based
            Security Model (USM) for version 3 of the Simple
            Network Management Protocol (SNMPv3)", RFC 2574,
            April 1999

[RFC1905]   Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S.
            Waldbusser, "Protocol Operations for Version 2 of
            the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)",
            RFC 1905, January 1996.

[RFC2573]   Levi, D., Meyer, P., and B. Stewart, "SNMPv3
            Applications", RFC 2573, April 1999

[RFC2575]   Wijnen, B., Presuhn, R., and K. McCloghrie, "View-
            based Access Control Model (VACM) for the Simple
            Network Management Protocol (SNMP)", RFC 2575,
            April 1999

[RFC2570]   Case, J., Mundy, R., Partain, D., and B. Stewart,
            "Introduction to Version 3 of the Internet-
            standard Network Management Framework", RFC 2570,
            April 1999

[RFC1907]   Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S.
            Waldbusser, "Management Information Base for
            Version 2 of the Simple Network Management
            Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1907, SNMP Research, Inc.,
            Cisco Systems, Inc., Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.,
            International Network Services, January 1996.

[RFC2233]   McCloghrie, K. and F. Kastenholz, "The Interfaces
            Group MIB", RFC 2233, November 1997.

[RFC2119]   Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to
            Indicate Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
            March 1997.









Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 61]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


8.  Acknowledgments

This document was produced by the Host Resources MIB working
group.

Bobby Krupczak's efforts were particularly helpful in the
creation of the draft standard version of this document.

In addition, the authors gratefully acknowledge the comments
of the following individuals:

        Amatzia Ben-Artzi  NetManage
        Steve Bostock      Novell
        Stephen Bush       GE Information Systems
        Jeff Case          SNMP Research
        Chuck Davin        Bellcore
        Ray Edgarton       Bell Atlantic
        Mike Erlinger      Aerospace Corporation
        Tim Farley         Magee Enterprises
        Mark Kepke         Hewlett Packard
        Bobby Krupczak     Georgia Tech
        Cheryl Krupczak    Georgia Tech
        Keith McCloghrie   Hughes Lan Systems
        Greg Minshall      Novell
        Steve Moulton      SNMP Research
        Dave Perkins       Synoptics
        Ed Reeder          Objective Systems Integrators
        Mike Ritter        Apple Computer
        Marshall Rose      Dover Beach Consulting
        Jon Saperia        DEC
        Rodney Thayer      Sable Technology
        Kaj Tesink         Bellcore
        Dean Throop        Data General
        Bert Wijnen        IBM

9.  Authors' Address

Pete Grillo
Phone: +1 503 827 6717
Email: pete@plusfactor.com


Steven Waldbusser
International Network Services (INS)
1213 Innsbruck Dr.





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 62]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


Sunnyvale CA 94089

Phone: +1 650 318 1251
Fax:   +1 650 318 1633

Email: waldbusser@ins.como

10.  Intellectual Property

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of
any intellectual property or other rights that might be
claimed to pertain to the implementation or use of the
technology described in this document or the extent to which
any license under such rights might or might not be available;
neither does it represent that it has made any effort to
identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's
procedures with respect to rights in standards-track and
standards-related documentation can be found in BCP-11.
Copies of claims of rights made available for publication and
any assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result
of an attempt made to obtain a general license or permission
for the use of such proprietary rights by implementors or
users of this specification can be obtained from the IETF
Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its
attention any copyrights, patents or patent applications, or
other proprietary rights which may cover technology that may
be required to practice this standard.  Please address the
information to the IETF Executive Director.

11.  Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1999).  All Rights
Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and
furnished to others, and derivative works that comment on or
otherwise explain it or assist in its implementation may be
prepared, copied, published and distributed, in whole or in
part, without restriction of any kind, provided that the above
copyright notice and this paragraph are included on all such
copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the
copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or





Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 63]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


other Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose
of developing Internet standards in which case the procedures
for copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must
be followed, or as required to translate it into languages
other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will
not be revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or
assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided
on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET
ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE
USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR
ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE.

































Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 64]





INTERNET DRAFT        Host Resources MIB               July 99


Table of Contents


1 The SNMP Management Framework .........................    3
2 Host Resources MIB ....................................    5
3 IANA Considerations ...................................    5
4 Definitions ...........................................    6
5.1 Textual Conventions .................................    9
5.2 The Host Resources System Group .....................   11
5.3 The Host Resources Storage Group ....................   13
5.4 The Host Resources Device Group .....................   18
5.5 The Host Resources Running Software Group ...........   37
5.6  The  Host  Resources Running Software Performance
     Group ..............................................   41
5.7 The Host Resources Installed Software Group .........   43
5.8 Conformance Definitions .............................   46
5 Type Definitions ......................................   50
6 Security Considerations ...............................   59
7 References ............................................   60
8 Acknowledgments .......................................   62
9 Authors' Address ......................................   62
10 Intellectual Property ................................   63
11 Copyright Statement ..................................   63



























Grillo, Waldbusser Expires January 31, 2000          [Page 65]

