





PPPEXT Working Group                                            B. Aboba
INTERNET-DRAFT                                                 Microsoft
Category: Standards Track
<draft-aboba-pppext-eap-iana-01.txt>
24 February 2002
Updates: RFC 2284


                        EAP IANA Considerations

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC 2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet- Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2002).  All Rights Reserved.

Abstract

This document describes the IANA considerations for Extensible
Authentication Protocol (EAP).

This document updates RFC 2284.

1.  Introduction

This document provides guidance to the Internet Assigned Numbers
Authority (IANA) regarding registration of values related to the
Extensible Authentication Protocol (EAP),defined in [RFC2284], in
accordance with BCP 26, [RFC2434].






Aboba                        Standards Track                    [Page 1]





INTERNET-DRAFT                  EAP IANA                24 February 2002


1.1.  Specification of Requirements

In this document, several words are used to signify the requirements of
the specification.  These words are often capitalized.  The key words
"MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD
NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be
interpreted as described in [RFC2119].

1.2.  Terminology

The following terms are used here with the meanings defined in BCP 26:
"name space", "assigned value", "registration".

The following policies are used here with the meanings defined in BCP
26: "Private Use", "First Come First Served", "Expert Review",
"Specification Required", "IETF Consensus", "Standards Action".

2.  IANA Considerations

There are two name spaces in EAP that require registration: Packet Codes
and Method Types.

EAP is not intended as a general-purpose protocol, and allocations
should not be made for purposes unrelated to authentication.

2.1.  Recommended Registration Policies

For registration requests where a Designated Expert should be consulted,
the responsible IESG Area Director should appoint the Designated Expert.

For registration requests requiring Expert Review, the eap mailing list
should be consulted.

Packet Codes have a range from 1 to 255, of which 1-4 have been
allocated. Because a new Packet Code has considerable impact on
interoperability, a new Packet Code requires Standards Action, and
should be allocated starting at 5.

The original EAP Method Type space has a range from 1 to 255, and is the
scarcest resource in EAP, and thus must be allocated with care.  Method
Types 1-31 have been allocated, with 20 available for re-use. Method
Types 32-191 may be allocated following Expert Review, with
Specification Required. Release of blocks of Method Types (more than 1
at a time for a given purpose) should require IETF Consensus.  EAP Type
Values 192-254 are reserved and allocation requires Standards Action.

Method Type 255 is allocated for Vendor-Specific extensions as described
in [VENDOR], and the use of that should be encouraged instead of



Aboba                        Standards Track                    [Page 2]





INTERNET-DRAFT                  EAP IANA                24 February 2002


allocation from the original global Method Type space, for functions
specific only to one vendor's implementation of EAP, where no
interoperability is deemed useful.

When used with a Vendor-Id of zero, Method Type 255 can also be used to
provide for an expanded Method Type space.  Expanded Method Type values
256-4294967295 may be allocated after Type values 1-191 have been
allocated.

3.  Normative references

[RFC2119]
     Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
     Levels", RFC 2119, March 1997.

[RFC2434]
     Alvestrand, H. and Narten, T., "Guidelines for Writing an IANA
     Considerations Section in RFCs", BCP 26, RFC 2434, October 1998.

[RFC2284]
     Blunk, L., Vollbrecht, J., "PPP Extensible Authentication Protocol
     (EAP)", RFC 2284, March 1998.

[VENDOR]
     Aboba, B., "The Vendor-Specific EAP Method", Internet draft (work
     in progress), draft-aboba-pppext-eap-vendor-01.txt, February 2002.

4.  Security Considerations

This focusses on IANA considerations, and does not have security
considerations.

Acknowledgments

Thanks to Glen Zorn of Cisco, and Ashwin Palekar of Microsoft for
discussions relating to this document.

Authors' Addresses

Bernard Aboba
Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA 98052

EMail: bernarda@microsoft.com
Phone: +1 425 706 6605
Fax:   +1 425 706 7329




Aboba                        Standards Track                    [Page 3]





INTERNET-DRAFT                  EAP IANA                24 February 2002


Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2002).  All Rights Reserved.
This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.  The limited permissions granted above are
perpetual and will not be revoked by the Internet Society or its
successors or assigns.  This document and the information contained
herein is provided on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE
INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."

Expiration Date

This memo is filed as <draft-aboba-pppext-eap-iana-01.txt>,  and
expires August 19, 2002.
























Aboba                        Standards Track                    [Page 4]


