





INTERNET-DRAFT 
draft-ietf-ldup-subentry-03.txt 
                                                    Ed Reed 
                                        Reed-Matthews, Inc. 
                                              July 13, 2000 
                                                            
LDAP Subentry Schema 


1. Status of this Memo 

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full 
conformance with all provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026. 
 
Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet 
Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working 
groups. Note that other groups may also distribute working 
documents as Internet-Drafts.  
 
Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of 
six months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by 
other documents at any time. It is inappropriate to use 
Internet-Drafts as reference material or to cite them other 
than as "work in progress."  
 
The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at 
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt.  
 
The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be 
accessed at http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html. 
 
This Internet-Draft expires on January 13, 2001. 


2. Abstract 

This document describes an object class called ldapSubEntry 
which MAY be used to indicate operations and management 
related entries in the directory, called LDAP Subentries.  
This version of this document is updated with an assigned 
OID for the ldapSubEntry object class. 

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", 
"SHALL NOT", "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", 
and  "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as 
described in RFC 2119 [RFC2119]. The sections below 
reiterate these definitions and include some additional 
ones. 


Reed .                                                       [Page 1] 
                       Expires January 13, 2001 


INTERNET-DRAFT                                           13 July 2000 
                   LDAP Subentry Schema 

3. Definition 


3.1 ldapSubEntry Class 

( 2.16.840.1.113719.2.142.6.1.1 NAME 'ldapSubEntry'  
   DESC 'LDAP Subentry class, version 1'  
     SUP top STRUCTURAL  
     MAY ( cn ) )  

The class ldapSubEntry is intended to be used as a super- 
class when defining other structural classes to be used 
as LDAP Subentries, and as the structural class to which 
Auxiliary classes may be added for application specific 
subentry information.  Where possible, the use of Auxiliary 
classes to extend ldapSubEntries is strongly preferred. 
 
The presence of ldapSubEntry in the list of super-classes 
of an entry in the directory makes that entry an LDAP 
Subentry.  Object classes derived from ldapSubEntry are 
themselves considered ldapSubEntry classes, for the purpose 
of this discussion. 

LDAP Subentries MAY be named by their commonName attribute 
[LDAPv3].  Other naming attributes are also permitted. 

LDAP Subentries MAY be containers, unlike their [X.501] 
counterparts. 

LDAP Subentries MAY be contained by, and will usually be 
located in the directory information tree immediately 
subordinate to, administrative points and/or naming 
contexts.  Further (unlike X.500 subentries), LDAP 
Subentries MAY be contained by other LDAP Subentries (the 
way organizational units may be contained by other 
organizational units).  Deep nestings of LDAP Subentries 
are discouraged, but not prohibited. 

LDAP Subentries SHOULD be treated as "operational objects" 
in much the same way that "operational attributes" are not 
regularly provided in search results and read operations 
when only user attributes are requested).    

LDAP servers SHOULD implement the following special 
handling of ldapSubEntry entries: 

a) search operations which include a matching criteria 
"objectclass=ldapSubEntry" MUST include entries derived 

Reed .                                                       [Page 2] 
                       Expires January 13, 2001 
 


INTERNET-DRAFT                                           13 July 2000 
                   LDAP Subentry Schema 

from the ldapSubEntry class in the scope of their 
operations;   

b) search operations which do not include a matching 
criteria "objectclass=ldapSubEntry" MUST IGNORE entries 
derived from the ldapSubEntry class, and exclude them from 
the scope of their operations. 

The combination of SHOULD and MUST in the special handling 
instructions, above, are meant to convey this:  Servers 
SHOULD support this special handling, and if they do they 
MUST do it as described, and not some other way. 



4. Security Considerations 

LDAP Subentries will frequently be used to hold data which 
reflects either the actual or intended behavior of the 
directory service.  As such, permission to read such 
entries MAY need to be restricted to authorized users.  
More importantly, IF a directory service treats the 
information in an LDAP Subentry as the authoritative source 
of policy to be used to control the behavior of the 
directory, then permission to create, modify, or delete 
such entries MUST be carefully restricted to authorized 
administrators. 



5. References 

[LDAPv3] S. Kille, M. Wahl, and T. Howes, "Lightweight 
Directory Access Protocol (v3)", RFC 2251, December 1997 

[X.501] ITU-T Rec. X.501, "The Directory: Models", 1993 



6. Copyright Notice 

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1999). All Rights 
Reserved.  
 
This document and translations of it may be copied and 
furnished to others, and derivative works that comment on 
or otherwise explain it or assist in its implementation may 
be prepared, copied, published and distributed, in whole or 

Reed .                                                       [Page 3] 
                       Expires January 13, 2001 
 


INTERNET-DRAFT                                           13 July 2000 
                   LDAP Subentry Schema 

in part, without restriction of any kind, provided that the 
above copyright notice and this paragraph are included on 
all such copies and derivative works. However, this 
document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by 
removing the copyright notice or references to the Internet 
Society or other Internet organizations, except as needed 
for the purpose of developing Internet standards in which 
case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet 
Standards process must be followed, or as required to 
translate it into languages other than English. 
 
The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and 
will not be revoked by the Internet Society or its 
successors or assigns. 
 
This document and the information contained herein is 
provided on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND 
THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL 
WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED 
TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL 
NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE." 


7. Acknowledgements 

The use of subEntry object class to store Replica and 
Replication Agreement information is due primarily to the 
lucid explanation by Mark Wahl, Innosoft, of how they could 
be used and extended. 
 
The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope 
of any intellectual property or other rights that might be 
claimed to pertain to the implementation or use of the 
technology described in this document or the extent to 
which any license under such rights might or might not be 
available; neither does it represent that it has made any 
effort to identify any such rights. Information on the 
IETF's procedures with respect to rights in standards-track 
and standards-related documentation can be found in BCP-11. 
Copies of claims of rights made available for publication 
and any assurances of licenses to be made available, or the 
result of an attempt made to obtain a general license or 
permission for the use of such proprietary rights by 
implementors or users of this specification can be obtained 
from the IETF Secretariat. 
 


Reed .                                                       [Page 4] 
                       Expires January 13, 2001 
 


INTERNET-DRAFT                                           13 July 2000 
                   LDAP Subentry Schema 

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its 
attention any copyrights, patents or patent applications, 
or other proprietary rights which may cover technology that 
may be required to practice this standard. Please address 
the information to the IETF Executive Director. 


8. Author's Address 

     Edwards E. Reed 
     Reed-Matthews, Inc. 
     1064 E 140 North 
     Lindon, UT  84042 
     USA 
     E-mail: eer@oncalldba.com  
      
     LDUP Mailing List: ietf-ldup@imc.org  
     LDAPEXT Mailing List: ietf-ldapext@netscape.com 































Reed .                                                       [Page 5] 
                       Expires January 13, 2001 
 
