





Network Working Group                                      Bernard Aboba
INTERNET-DRAFT                                                 Microsoft
Category: Standards Track
<draft-aboba-dhc-domsearch-02.txt>
14 June 2001

                       DHCP Domain Search Option

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet- Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

The distribution of this memo is unlimited.

Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.

Abstract

The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) provides a mechanism for
host configuration. RFC 2132 allows DHCP servers to specify
configuration information for various kinds of name services to be
passed to DHCP clients.  In some circumstances, it is useful for the
DHCP client to be configured with the domain search list.  This document
defines a new DHCP option which is passed from the DHCP Server to the
DHCP Client to specify the domain seach list when resolving hostnames.










Aboba                        Standards Track                    [Page 1]





INTERNET-DRAFT          DHCP Domain Search Option           14 June 2001


1.  Introduction

The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol (DHCP) [2] provides a mechanism
for host configuration. RFC 2132 [3] allows DHCP servers to specify
configuration information for various kinds of name services to be
passed to DHCP clients.  In some circumstances, it is useful for the
DHCP client to be configured with the domain search list.  This document
defines a new DHCP option which is passed from the DHCP Server to the
DHCP Client to specify the domain seach list when resolving hostnames.

1.1.  Terminology

This document uses the following terms:

DHCP client
          A DHCP client or "client" is an Internet host using DHCP to
          obtain configuration parameters such as a network address.

DHCP server
          A DHCP server or "server" is an Internet host that returns
          configuration parameters to DHCP clients.

1.2.  Requirements language

In this document, the key words "MAY", "MUST,  "MUST  NOT",  "optional",
"recommended",  "SHOULD",  and  "SHOULD  NOT",  are to be interpreted as
described in [1].

2.  Domain Search Option Format

The code for this option is TBD.

 0                   1                   2                   3
 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|     TBD       |     Len       |         SearchString...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
|                     Searchstring...
+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

In the above diagram, Searchstring is a string specifying the
searchlist.  If the length of the searchlist exceeds the maximum
permissible within a single option (256 octets), then multiple options
may be used, as described in [5].

To enable the searchlist to be encoded compactly, searchstrings in the
searchlist are concatenated and encoded using the technique described in
section 4.1.4 of [6].  In this scheme, an entire domain name or a  list



Aboba                        Standards Track                    [Page 2]





INTERNET-DRAFT          DHCP Domain Search Option           14 June 2001


of labels at the end of a domain name is replaced with a pointer to a
prior occurance of the same name.  Despite its complexity, this
technique is valuable since the space available for encoding if DHCP
options is limited, and it is likely that a domain searchstring will
contain repeated instances of the same domain name. Thus compression
method described in [6] is both useful and likely to be effective.

For use in this specification, the pointer refers to the offset within
the SearchString portion of the option. If multiple searchlist options
are present, then the SearchString portion of all the options are
concatenated and the pointer refers to the offset within the
concatenated SearchString.

3.  References


[1]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
     Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

[2]  Droms, R., "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol", RFC 2131, March
     1997.

[3]  Alexander, S., Droms, R., "DHCP Options and BOOTP Vendor
     Extensions", RFC 2132, March 1997.

[4]  Droms, R., Arbaugh, W., "Authentication for DHCP Messages",
     Internet draft (work in progress), draft-ietf-dhc-
     authentication-14.txt, July 2000.

[5]  Lemon, T., "Encoding Long DHCP Options", Internet draft (work in
     progress), draft-ietf-dhc-concat-00.txt, February 2001.

[6]  Mockapetris, P., "DOMAIN NAMES - IMPLEMENTATION AND SPECIFICATION",
     RFC 1035, November 1987.

4.  Security Considerations

Potential attacks on DHCP are discussed in section 7 of the DHCP
protocol specification [2], as well as in the DHCP authentication
specification [4]. In particular, using the domain search option, a
rogue DHCP server might be able to redirect traffic to another site.

5.  IANA Considerations

This draft does not create any new number spaces for IANA
administration.





Aboba                        Standards Track                    [Page 3]





INTERNET-DRAFT          DHCP Domain Search Option           14 June 2001


6.  Acknowledgments

The authors would like to thank Stuart Cheshire, Michael Patton, Erik
Guttman, Olafur Gudmundsson, Thomas Narten, Mark Andrews, Erik Nordmark,
Myron Hattig and Bill Manning for comments on this draft, provided at
the mDNS lunch in Adelaide, Australia on 3/29/00.

7.  Authors' Addresses

Bernard Aboba
Microsoft Corporation
One Microsoft Way
Redmond, WA 98052

Phone: +1 (425) 936-6605
EMail: bernarda@microsoft.com

8.  Intellectual Property Statement

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed to  pertain
to the implementation or use of the technology described in this
document or the extent to which any license under such rights might or
might not be available; neither does it represent that it has made any
effort to identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's
procedures with respect to rights in standards-track and standards-
related documentation can be found in BCP-11.  Copies of claims of
rights made available for publication and any assurances of licenses to
be made available, or the result of an attempt made to obtain a general
license or permission for the use of such proprietary rights by
implementors or users of this specification can be obtained from the
IETF Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights
which may cover technology that may be required to practice this
standard.  Please address the information to the IETF Executive
Director.

9.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2001).  All Rights Reserved.
This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself



Aboba                        Standards Track                    [Page 4]





INTERNET-DRAFT          DHCP Domain Search Option           14 June 2001


may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.  The limited permissions granted above are
perpetual and will not be revoked by the Internet Society or its
successors or assigns.  This document and the information contained
herein is provided on an "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE
INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."

10.  Expiration Date

This memo is filed as <draft-aboba-dhc-domsearch-02.txt>,  and  expires
January 1, 2002.

































Aboba                        Standards Track                    [Page 5]


