





Network Working Group                               M. Riegel, M. Tuexen
INTERNET DRAFT                                                Siemens AG
Expires August 20, 2002                                February 20, 2002

                              Mobile SCTP
                <draft-riegel-tuexen-mobile-sctp-00.txt>

Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of [RFC2026].

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups. Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

Abstract

Transport layer mobility management is proposed as an alternative to
Mobile IP for realizing seamless mobility in the Internet. Mobility
management is accomplished by use of SCTP (Stream Control Transmission
Protocol) and some of its currently proposed extensions. With mobile
SCTP seamless handover even crossing physical, link and network layer
technologies is fully realized in the mobile client at the end of the
network not needing any additional provisions in the network. Mobile
services can be provided to such clients by mobile SCTP enabled servers
from everywhere in the Internet.

Client mobility management based on mobile SCTP seems not to require any
new protocol development. It is a particular application of SCTP
eventually solving the requirements of mobility in the Internet.

It is the intention of this I-D to initiate a discussion to explore the
nits and nuts of transport layer mobility management.
Please send comments to the mailing list 'mobile@sctp.de'.
For subscription please send a mail to mobile-request@sctp.de.




Riegel, Tuexen                                                  [Page 1]

Internet Draft                 Mobile SCTP                 February 2002


1.  Introduction

Traditionally mobility in the Internet is accomplished by making sure
the moving host is reachable by its originally assigned IP address even
when the address leaves the network area the address belongs to. To keep
reachability by an address outside its assigned area the protocol Mobile
IP [RFC2002] can be used installing an agent in the home area taking
care of all packets sent to a mobile host staying outside its native
network area. The home agent knows about the foreign location of the
mobile host and forwards all packets addressed to it to an agent in the
foreign location which finally delivers the packets to the mobile host.
Home agent and foreign agent are connected by a tunnel making the
mobility enabled network layer 'circuit switched'.

2.  Transport layer mobility

Transport layer mobility management keeps the circuit-less nature of the
network layer of the Internet untouched and implements the whole
functionality for providing mobility to hosts in the transport layer
entities at both ends of the network. The transport layer of the
Internet is the first layer going up the networking stack which provides
end-to-end control.

2.1.  Transport layer

A client host accesses a particular service over the Internet by
establishing a transport layer connection to a server host providing
such service. This connection is mostly made reliable by an appropriate
transport control protocol and carries the application protocol elements
and all the user data of a particular service between the hosts over the
Internet.

The transport layer shields the application from the actual network
beneath and provides virtual circuits end to end through the Internet.
As long as the virtual circuit provided by the transport layer stays
intact most application protocols, exept those using IP addresses in
messages of their own will continue to work even when the IP address of
the network layer beneath changes.

2.2.  Mobility extension of the transport layer

A mobility enabled transport protocol allows for the change of the IP
address of the network layer while keeping the end-to-end connection
intact.







Riegel, Tuexen                                                  [Page 2]

Internet Draft                 Mobile SCTP                 February 2002


2.3.  Transport layer mobility by example

The following picture illustrates the concept of transport layer
mobility.

 Loc A
   ######### [2.0.0.2]              *******
   #       #I- - - - -I       ********     **
   #       #I         A     **  **    **     **
   #########         / \___*    *    *******  *
      | |                 *   *********  *  ***           +------+
 Moving from A to B       ****               **  [8.0.0.4]|      |
     \| |/                *     Internet  ***  *----------|      |
 Loc B\ /                * *              **   * [8.0.0.5]+------+
   #########             *  **   *    **   *   *           Server
   #       #I            *    ********     *  *
   #       #I---------I   *        **     * **
   ######### [4.0.0.3]A    *        *******
  Mobile Client      / \____*          *
                              ********

                              Figure 1

2.3.1.  Initial connection to the Internet

A mobile client connects to the Internet by some wireless technology and
gets assigned an IP address from the local address space at location A
[e.g. 2.0.0.2]. This can be accomplished by any of the techniques
currently known for dynamic address assignment, like PPP or DHCP.

The mobile client being now reachable over the Internet establishes a
transport layer connection to a server anywhere 'in' the Internet [e.g.
8.0.0.4] and starts using the provided service.

2.3.2.  Soft handover

The mobile client moves from location A towards location B and gets
knowledge of reaching the coverage of another network by information
from the physical layer of its NIC. In addition to the link already
existing the mobile client establishes a link to the network at location
B and gets assigned an IP address of the network at location B on its
second network interface. Thus the mobile client becomes multi-homed and
is now reachable by the way of two different networks.

The mobile client tells the corresponding server using the established
transport layer connection that it is now reachable by at a second IP
address. Technically speaking, it adds the newly assigned IP address to
the association identifying the connection to the server. To enable easy



Riegel, Tuexen                                                  [Page 3]

Internet Draft                 Mobile SCTP                 February 2002


distinction of the two links at the mobile client several IP addresses
should be assigned to the network interface of the server. This allows
to represent different links by different entries in the routing table
of the mobile client.

By reaching location B the mobile client may leave the coverage of the
access point at location A and may loose the link for the first IP
address of the mobile client. The data stream between server and mobile
client gets interrupted and the reliability behavior of the transport
protocol ensures that all data is sent over the second link in case of
permanent failure of the first link.

If the mobile client has access to information about the strength of the
wireless signal the handover to the second link will be initiated before
severe packet loss occurs, making the handover more soft.

2.3.3.  Tear down of the initial link

When the mobile client has proved by information from the physical layer
that the failure of the first link is permanent, it will inform its peer
that it is now not reachable any more by the first IP address and
removes this IP address from the association.

2.3.4.  The procedure continues...

When the mobile client moves on, it may reach the coverage of another
wireless network. It will repeat the procedure described above gaining
seamless mobility while keeping running applications working.

3.  Mobile SCTP, the mobility enabled profile of SCTP

It is not necessary to develop a new protocol for transport layer
mobility.  All the functionality described above providing transport
layer mobility already exists in the Stream Control Transmission
Protocol (SCTP) when the proposed extension for dynamic addition of IP
addresses is added.

Further extensions to the SCTP protocol also enables the unreliable
transport of data extending the applicability of transport layer
mobility management from applications based on a reliable transport
protocol (TCP, for example) to applications currently realized on an
unreliable transport protocol (UDP, for example).

3.1.  Mobility enabling functions of SCTP

The thrill using SCTP for mobility is due to two features provided by
SCTP:




Riegel, Tuexen                                                  [Page 4]

Internet Draft                 Mobile SCTP                 February 2002


     (1)  an end-point can use multiple IP-addresses for one connection

     (2)  an end-point can change these multiple addresses dynamically
          without affecting the established association.

An association is a connection between two SCTP end-points.

3.1.1.  Support of multihoming

An SCTP end-point can use multiple IP-addresses for an association.
These are exchanged during the initiation of the association.  The
multiple addresses of the peer are considered as different paths towards
that peer.

This means that a server must use multiple IP-addresses to provide the
mobile client with multiple paths. These will be used while moving
between locations.

It should be mentioned that this path-concept is used only for
redundancy, not for load sharing.  Therefore one path is used for normal
transmission of user data. It is called the primary path.

For a more detailed description see [SCTPOVER], [SCTPAPPL] or [RFC2960].

3.1.2.  Dynamic addition and deletion of IP-addresses

Using the multihoming feature provides multiple paths through the
network. This does not solve the problem of having different IP-
addresses at different locations. Therefore the IP addresses of an SCTP
end-point have to be modified without affecting an established
association. It is also helpful to tell the peer what path to use as the
primary.

An extension to SCTP providing exactly these features is described in
[ADDIP].

4.  Considerations for mobile SCTP enabled hosts

The only general requirement is that the transport protocol must be SCTP
with the extensions described in [ADDIP].

4.1.  Requirements for SCTP mobility enabled mobile clients

To motivate the requirements for the mobile client one has to consider
the situation where the client has connections to multiple access point.
Figure 2 shows this scenario with two access points.





Riegel, Tuexen                                                  [Page 5]

Internet Draft                 Mobile SCTP                 February 2002


                                    *******
                   +--I       ********     **
          [2.0.0.2]|  A     **  **    **     **
                   | / \___*    *    *******  *
   #########       |      *   *********  *  ***           +------+
   #       #I------+      ****               **  [8.0.0.4]|      |
   #       #I------+      *     Internet  ***  *----------|      |
   #########       |     * *              **   * [8.0.0.5]+------+
          [4.0.0.3]|     *  **   *    **   *   *
                   +--I  *    ********     *  *
                      A   *        **     * **
                     / \____*        *******
  Mobile Client               *********                    Server

                              Figure 2

During the time where the mobile client is reachable via two different
access networks it has to make sure that it uses both links. Thus, for
example, the forwarding of the mobile client has to be set up in a way
that the traffic towards 8.0.0.4 uses the upper link (interface 2.0.0.2)
and the traffic towards 8.0.0.5 uses the lower link (interface 4.0.0.3).

The mobile client also knows the quality of the two links and can make
sure that it uses the better one whenever appropriate. Using the ability
to request the server to modify its primary path it is also possible
that the mobile client makes sure that the traffic from the server
towards the mobile client uses the better link.

It should be mentioned that this link handover has to be done carefully
to avoid oscillation and frequent switching.

Summarizing this, the mobile client must use an implementation of SCTP
with the extension [ADDIP]. Furthermore the forwarding table of the
mobile client has to be modified according the connectivity state.

4.2.  Requirements for SCTP mobility enabled servers

The server must use multiple IP-addresses and a SCTP implementation
supporting the extension [ADDIP].

5.  Combination of link layer mobility and transport layer mobility

Some radio technologies like IEEE802.11 wireless LAN provide mobility
management functionalities in the link layer. Link layer handover is
mostly restricted to micro mobility but can be favorably combined with
transport layer mobility management reducing the processing requirements
at the server side for handling all the handovers.




Riegel, Tuexen                                                  [Page 6]

Internet Draft                 Mobile SCTP                 February 2002


6.  Possible extensions

6.1.  Mobile servers

The description up to now mostly focuses on mobile clients using
services from fixed servers. Sometimes the other way round might be
necessary; addressing mobile hosts from fixed hosts. Due to location
dependent dynamic assignment of IP addresses to mobile hosts the normal
way using the DNS is not appropriate. Therefore some kind of paging
protocol or a special adoption of the DNS may become necessary. Others
possiblilities may involve some application layer protocols.

One possible technique to handle the mobility of hosts can be based on
the RSerPool protocl suite. This allows to access a server, or a pool
element in RSerPool terminology, by using a pool handle. The RSerPool
protocol suite can be implemented on small devices like cellular phones
as required in [RFC3237].

6.2.  Time multiplexed network interfaces

All descriptions in this I-D assume mobile clients with at least two
network interfaces. Some kind of wireless technologies might allow to
use one network interface card to establish several network connections
quasi in parallel in a time multiplexed manner. This might lead to some
considerable cost benefits for mobile clients, but does not change the
basic procedures of transport layer mobility management.

7.  Acknowledgements

The authors would like to thank M. Bokaemper, H. J. Schwarzbauer and
many others for their valuable comments and suggestions.

8.  IPR Considerations

This proposal in is full conformance with [RFC2026].

Siemens may have patent rights on technology described in this document
which employees of Siemens contribute for use in IETF standards
discussions. In relation to any IETF standard incorporating any such
technology, Siemens hereby agrees to license on fair, reasonable and
non-discriminatory terms, based on reciprocity, any patent claims it
owns covering such technology, to the extent such technology is
essential to comply with such standard.

9.  References

[SCTPOVER]  L. Ong, Y. Yoakum, "An Overview of the SCTP", <draft-ong-
            sigtran-sctpover-02.txt>, January 2002.



Riegel, Tuexen                                                  [Page 7]

Internet Draft                 Mobile SCTP                 February 2002


[ADDIP]     R. R. Stewart, Q. Xie, M. Tuexen, I. Rytina, "SCTP Dynamic
            Addition of IP Addresses", <draft-ietf-tsvwg-addip-
            sctp-04.txt>, January 2002.

[SCTPAPPL]  L. Coene et al., "Stream Control Transmission Protocol
            Applicability Statement", <draft-ietf-sigtran-sctp-
            applicability-08.txt>, November 2001.

[RFC2002]   C. Perkins, "IP Mobility Support", RFC 2002, October 1996.

[RFC2026]   S. Bradner, "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3",
            RFC 2026, October 1996.

[RFC2960]   R. R. Stewart et al., "Stream Control Transmission
            Protocol", RFC 2960, November 2000.

[RFC3237]   M. Tuexen et al., "Requirements for Reliable Server
            Pooling", RFC 3237, January 2002.

10.  Authors' Addresses

Maximilian Riegel             Tel.:   +49 89 722 49557
Siemens AG                    e-mail: maximilian.riegel@icn.siemens.de
Hofmannstr 51
81359 Munich
Germany


Michael Tuexen                Tel.:   +49 89 722 47210
Siemens AG                    e-mail: michael.tuexen@icn.siemens.de
Hofmannstr 51
81359 Munich
Germany





              This Internet Draft expires August 20, 2002.












Riegel, Tuexen                                                  [Page 8]
