

IDMR Working Group                                   Keith McCloghrie
INTERNET-DRAFT                                         Dino Farinacci
Expires January 1999                                    cisco Systems
                                                          Dave Thaler
                                                            Microsoft
                                                         28 July 1998



                 Internet Group Management Protocol MIB
                   <draft-ietf-idmr-igmp-mib-07.txt>





Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet Draft.  Internet Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its Areas, and
its Working Groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet Drafts.

Internet Drafts are valid for a maximum of six months and may be
updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any time.  It is
inappropriate to use Internet Drafts as reference material or to cite
them other than as a "work in progress".


1.  Introduction

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in the Internet
community.  In particular, it describes managed objects used for
managing the Internet Group Management Protocol (IGMP).  All of this MIB
module is applicable to IP multicast routers [17,18,19,20,21]; a subset
is applicable to hosts implementing IGMPv1 [16] or IGMPv2 [22].



















Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


2.  Revision History

A record of changes which will be removed before publication.

28 July 1998

(1)  filled in Security Considerations, added copyright, updated SNMP
     boilerplate, and updated references

(2)  added igmpInterfaceQuerierUpTime and
     igmpInterfaceQuerierExpiryTime.

18 February 1998

(1)  added igmpInterfaceProxyIfIndex to manage IGMP proxies.

(2)  added igmpInterfaceLastMembQueryIntvl.

18 July 1997

(1)  deprecated igmpInterfaceLeaves and added igmpInterfaceGroups to
     replace it.

(2)  deprecated igmpInterfaceQuerierPresentTimeout and added
     igmpInterfaceRobustness to replace it since the former must be
     derived from the latter per the IGMPv2 spec.

(3)  replaced igmpBaseVersion2MIBGroup with igmpHostVersion2MIBGroup to
     avoid requiring igmpInterfaceVersion1QuerierTimer at routers.

(4)  deprecated igmpInterfaceLeaveEnabled

(5)  added compliance statements for IGMPv2 hosts and routers

26 November 1996

(1)  moved igmpInterfaceVersion1HostTimer to igmpCacheVersion1HostTimer.

(2)  added igmpInterfaceVersion1QuerierTimer,
     igmpInterfaceWrongVersionQueries, and igmpInterfaceJoins.

(3)  added default value for igmpInterfaceQueryMaxResponseTime.

(4)  moved igmpInterfaceVersion from igmpBaseVersion2MIBGroup to
     igmpRouterVersion2MIBGroup.





Expires August 1998                                             [Page 2]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


9 June 1996

(1)  added support for IGMP version 2.


3.  The SNMP Network Management Framework

The SNMP Management Framework presently consists of five major
components:

o    An overall architecture, described in RFC 2271 [1].

o    Mechanisms for describing and naming objects and events for the
     purpose of management. The first version of this Structure of
     Management Information (SMI) is called SMIv1 and described in RFC
     1155 [2], RFC 1212 [3] and RFC 1215 [4]. The second version, called
     SMIv2, is described in RFC 1902 [5], RFC 1903 [6] and RFC 1904 [7].

o    Message protocols for transferring management information. The
     first version of the SNMP message protocol is called SNMPv1 and
     described in RFC 1157 [8]. A second version of the SNMP message
     protocol, which is not an Internet standards track protocol, is
     called SNMPv2c and described in RFC 1901 [9] and RFC 1906 [10].
     The third version of the message protocol is called SNMPv3 and
     described in RFC 1906 [10], RFC 2272 [11] and RFC 2274 [12].

o    Protocol operations for accessing management information. The first
     set of protocol operations and associated PDU formats is described
     in RFC 1157 [8]. A second set of protocol operations and associated
     PDU formats is described in RFC 1905 [13].

o    A set of fundamental applications described in RFC 2273 [14] and
     the view-based access control mechanism described in RFC 2275 [15].

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the mechanisms defined in the SMI.

This memo specifies a MIB module that is compliant to the SMIv2. A MIB
conforming to the SMIv1 can be produced through the appropriate
translations. The resulting translated MIB must be semantically
equivalent, except where objects or events are omitted because no
translation is possible (use of Counter64). Some machine readable
information in SMIv2 will be converted into textual descriptions in
SMIv1 during the translation process. However, this loss of machine





Expires August 1998                                             [Page 3]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


readable information is not considered to change the semantics of the
MIB.


3.1.  Object Definitions

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) defined in the
SMI.  In particular, each object type is named by an OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
an administratively assigned name.  The object type together with an
object instance serves to uniquely identify a specific instantiation of
the object.  For human convenience, we often use a textual string,
termed the descriptor, to refer to the object type.




































Expires August 1998                                             [Page 4]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


4.  Overview

This MIB module contains two tables:

(1)  the IGMP Interface Table which contains one row for each interface
     on which IGMP is enabled, and

(2)  the IGMP Cache Table which contains one row for each IP multicast
     group for which there are members on a particular interface.

Both tables are intended to be implemented by hosts and routers, but
some columnar objects in each table apply only to routers.






































Expires August 1998                                             [Page 5]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


5.  Definitions

IGMP-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, experimental, Counter32, Gauge32,
    Integer32, IpAddress, TimeTicks  FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    RowStatus, TruthValue            FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP  FROM SNMPv2-CONF;


igmpMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9807281330Z"
    ORGANIZATION "IETF IDMR Working Group."
    CONTACT-INFO
            " Keith McCloghrie
              Cisco Systems, Inc.
              170 West Tasman Drive
              San Jose, CA  95134-1706
              US

              Phone: +1 408 526 5260
              EMail: kzm@cisco.com"
    DESCRIPTION
            "The MIB module for IGMP Management."
    ::= { experimental 59 }


igmpMIBObjects     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { igmpMIB 1 }

igmp      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { igmpMIBObjects 1 }



















Expires August 1998                                             [Page 6]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


--
--  The IGMP Interface Table
--

igmpInterfaceTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF IgmpInterfaceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing the interfaces on which IGMP
            is enabled."
    ::= { igmp 1 }

igmpInterfaceEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IgmpInterfaceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) representing an interface on
            which IGMP is enabled."
    INDEX      { igmpInterfaceIfIndex }
    ::= { igmpInterfaceTable 1 }

IgmpInterfaceEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    igmpInterfaceIfIndex               Integer32,
    igmpInterfaceQueryInterval         Integer32,
    igmpInterfaceStatus                RowStatus,
    igmpInterfaceVersion               INTEGER,
    igmpInterfaceQuerier               IpAddress,
    igmpInterfaceQueryMaxResponseTime  Integer32,
    igmpInterfaceQuerierPresentTimeout Integer32,   -- deprecated
    igmpInterfaceLeaveEnabled          TruthValue,  -- deprecated
    igmpInterfaceVersion1QuerierTimer  Integer32,
    igmpInterfaceWrongVersionQueries   Counter32,
    igmpInterfaceJoins                 Counter32,
    igmpInterfaceLeaves                Counter32,   -- deprecated
    igmpInterfaceGroups                Gauge32,
    igmpInterfaceRobustness            Integer32,
    igmpInterfaceProxyIfIndex          Integer32,
    igmpInterfaceLastMembQueryIntvl    Integer32,
    igmpInterfaceQuerierUpTime         Integer32,
    igmpInterfaceQuerierExpiryTime     Integer32
}

igmpInterfaceIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE





Expires August 1998                                             [Page 7]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The ifIndex value of the interface for which IGMP is
            enabled."
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 1 }

igmpInterfaceQueryInterval OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The frequency at which IGMP Host-Query packets are
            transmitted on this interface."
    DEFVAL     { 125 }
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 2 }

igmpInterfaceStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The activation of a row enables IGMP on the interface.  The
            destruction of a row disables IGMP on the interface."
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 3 }

igmpInterfaceVersion OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER { version1(1), version2(2) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The version of IGMP which is running on this interface.
            This object can be used to configure a router capable of
            running either value.  For IGMP to function correctly, all
            routers on a LAN must be configured to run the same version
            of IGMP on that LAN."
    DEFVAL     { version2 }
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 4 }

igmpInterfaceQuerier OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current





Expires August 1998                                             [Page 8]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


    DESCRIPTION
            "The address of the IGMP Querier on the IP subnet to which
            this interface is attached."
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 5 }

igmpInterfaceQueryMaxResponseTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The maximum query response time advertised in IGMPv2
            queries on this interface."
    DEFVAL     { 10 }
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 6 }

igmpInterfaceQuerierPresentTimeout OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "A timeout interval.  If no IGMPv2 queries are heard on this
            interface within this timeout interval, the local router
            will take over the Querier on the IP subnet to which this
            interface is attached.  This object is now deprecated, since
            its value can be derived from igmpInterfaceRobustness."
    DEFVAL     { 255 }
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 7 }

igmpInterfaceLeaveEnabled OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "An indication of whether the processing of IGMPv2 Leave
            messages is enabled on this interface.  This object is now
            deprecated since it must be true when igmpInterfaceVersion
            is version2, and must be false when it is version1 to comply
            with the IGMP specfication."
    DEFVAL     { true }
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 8 }

igmpInterfaceVersion1QuerierTimer OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32





Expires August 1998                                             [Page 9]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The time remaining until the host assumes that there are no
            IGMPv1 routers present on the interface.  While this is
            non-zero, the host will reply to all queries with version 1
            membership reports."
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 9 }

igmpInterfaceWrongVersionQueries OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of queries received whose IGMP version does not
            match igmpInterfaceVersion.   IGMP requires that all routers
            on a LAN be configured to run the same version of IGMP.
            Thus, if any queries are received with the wrong version,
            this indicates a configuration error."
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 10 }

igmpInterfaceJoins OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of times a group membership has been added on
            this interface; that is, the number of times an entry for
            this interface has been added to the Cache Table.  This
            object gives an indication of the amount of IGMP activity
            over time."
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 11 }

igmpInterfaceLeaves OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of times a group membership has been removed
            from this interface; that is, the number of times an entry
            for this interface has been deleted from the Cache Table.
            This object is deprecated since its value cannot be usefully
            compared with igmpInterfaceJoins to get the number of groups
            joined.  Instead, igmpInterfaceGroups gives the number of





Expires August 1998                                            [Page 10]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


            groups joined, which may be compared with igmpInterfaceJoins
            to derive the number of leaves."
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 12 }

igmpInterfaceGroups OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Gauge32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The current number of entries for this interface in the
            Cache Table."
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 13 }

igmpInterfaceRobustness OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The Robustness Variable allows tuning for the expected
            packet loss on a subnet.  If a subnet is expected to be
            lossy, the Robustness Variable may be increased.  IGMP is
            robust to (Robustness Variable-1) packet losses."
    DEFVAL     { 2 }
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 14 }

igmpInterfaceLastMembQueryIntvl OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "tenths of seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The Last Member Query Interval is the Max Response Time
            inserted into Group-Specific Queries sent in response to
            Leave Group messages, and is also the amount of time between
            Group-Specific Query messages.  This value may be tuned to
            modify the leave latency of the network.  A reduced value
            results in reduced time to detect the loss of the last
            member of a group."
    DEFVAL     { 10 }
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 15 }

igmpInterfaceProxyIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current





Expires August 1998                                            [Page 11]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


    DESCRIPTION
            "Some devices implement a form of IGMP proxying whereby
            memberships learned on the interface represented by this
            row, cause IGMP Host Membership Reports to be sent on the
            interface whose ifIndex value is given by this object.  Such
            a device would implement the igmpV2RouterMIBGroup only on
            its router interfaces (those interfaces whose ifIndex value
            is given by this object on some interface).  Typically, the
            value of this object is 0, indicating that no proxying is
            being done."
    DEFVAL     { 0 }
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 16 }

igmpInterfaceQuerierUpTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of seconds since igmpInterfaceQuerier was last
            changed."
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 17 }

igmpInterfaceQuerierExpiryTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of seconds remaining before the Other Querier
            Present Timer expires.  If the local system is the querier,
            the value of this object is zero."
    ::= { igmpInterfaceEntry 18 }

















Expires August 1998                                            [Page 12]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


--
--  The IGMP Cache Table
--

igmpCacheTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF IgmpCacheEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing the IP multicast groups for
            which there are members on a particular interface."
    ::= { igmp 2 }

igmpCacheEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IgmpCacheEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the igmpCacheTable."
    INDEX      { igmpCacheAddress, igmpCacheIfIndex }
    ::= { igmpCacheTable 1 }

IgmpCacheEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    igmpCacheAddress            IpAddress,
    igmpCacheIfIndex            Integer32,
    igmpCacheSelf               TruthValue,
    igmpCacheLastReporter       IpAddress,
    igmpCacheUpTime             TimeTicks,
    igmpCacheExpiryTime         TimeTicks,
    igmpCacheStatus             RowStatus,
    igmpCacheVersion1HostTimer  Integer32
}

igmpCacheAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP multicast group address for which this entry
            contains information."
    ::= { igmpCacheEntry 1 }

igmpCacheIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible





Expires August 1998                                            [Page 13]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The interface for which this entry contains information for
            an IP multicast group address."
    ::= { igmpCacheEntry 2 }

igmpCacheSelf OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TruthValue
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An indication of whether the local system is a member of
            this group address on this interface."
    DEFVAL     { true }
    ::= { igmpCacheEntry 3 }

igmpCacheLastReporter OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the source of the last membership report
            received for this IP Multicast group address on this
            interface.  If no membership report has been received, this
            object has the value 0.0.0.0."
    ::= { igmpCacheEntry 4 }

igmpCacheUpTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The time since the system joined this group address, or
            zero if the system is not currently a member."
    ::= { igmpCacheEntry 5 }

igmpCacheExpiryTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The minimum amount of time remaining before this entry will
            be aged out."
    ::= { igmpCacheEntry 6 }






Expires August 1998                                            [Page 14]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


igmpCacheStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this entry."
    ::= { igmpCacheEntry 7 }

igmpCacheVersion1HostTimer OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    UNITS      "seconds"
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The time remaining until the local router will assume that
            there are no longer any IGMP version 1 members on the IP
            subnet attached to this interface.  Upon hearing any IGMPv1
            Membership Report, this value is reset to the group
            membership timer.  While this time remaining is non-zero,
            the local router ignores any IGMPv2 Leave messages for this
            group that it receives on this interface."
    ::= { igmpCacheEntry 8 }




























Expires August 1998                                            [Page 15]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


-- conformance information

igmpMIBConformance
               OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { igmpMIB 2 }
igmpMIBCompliances
               OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { igmpMIBConformance 1 }
igmpMIBGroups  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { igmpMIBConformance 2 }


-- compliance statements

igmpV1HostMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for hosts running IGMPv1 and
            implementing the IGMP MIB."
    MODULE  -- this module
    MANDATORY-GROUPS { igmpBaseMIBGroup }

    OBJECT     igmpInterfaceStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
             "Write access is not required."

    ::= { igmpMIBCompliances 1 }

igmpV1RouterMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for routers running IGMPv1 and
            implementing the IGMP MIB."
    MODULE  -- this module
         MANDATORY-GROUPS { igmpBaseMIBGroup,
                       igmpRouterMIBGroup
                     }

    OBJECT     igmpInterfaceStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
             "Write access is not required."

    ::= { igmpMIBCompliances 2 }

igmpV2HostMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current





Expires August 1998                                            [Page 16]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for hosts running IGMPv2 and
            implementing the IGMP MIB."
    MODULE  -- this module
    MANDATORY-GROUPS { igmpBaseMIBGroup,
                       igmpV2HostMIBGroup
                     }

    OBJECT     igmpInterfaceStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
             "Write access is not required."

    ::= { igmpMIBCompliances 3 }

igmpV2RouterMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for routers running IGMPv2 and
            implementing the IGMP MIB."
    MODULE  -- this module
    MANDATORY-GROUPS { igmpBaseMIBGroup,
                       igmpRouterMIBGroup,
                       igmpV2RouterMIBGroup
                     }

    OBJECT     igmpInterfaceStatus
    MIN-ACCESS read-only
    DESCRIPTION
             "Write access is not required."

    ::= { igmpMIBCompliances 4 }


-- units of conformance

igmpBaseMIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { igmpCacheSelf, igmpCacheLastReporter,
              igmpCacheStatus, igmpInterfaceStatus
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The basic collection of objects providing management of
            IGMP version 1 or 2."
    ::= { igmpMIBGroups 1 }





Expires August 1998                                            [Page 17]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


igmpRouterMIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { igmpCacheUpTime, igmpCacheExpiryTime,
              igmpInterfaceQueryInterval
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of additional objects for management of IGMP
            version 1 or 2 in routers."
    ::= { igmpMIBGroups 2 }


igmpV2HostMIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { igmpInterfaceQuerier,
              igmpInterfaceVersion1QuerierTimer
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of additional objects for management of IGMP
            version 2 in hosts."
    ::= { igmpMIBGroups 3 }

igmpRouterVersion2MIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { igmpInterfaceVersion,
              igmpInterfaceQueryMaxResponseTime,
              igmpInterfaceQuerierPresentTimeout,
              igmpInterfaceLeaveEnabled,
              igmpInterfaceWrongVersionQueries,
              igmpInterfaceJoins,
              igmpInterfaceLeaves,
              igmpCacheVersion1HostTimer
            }
    STATUS  deprecated
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of additional objects for management of IGMP
            version 2 in routers.  This group has been obsoleted by
            igmpV2RouterMIBGroup."
    ::= { igmpMIBGroups 4 }

igmpV2RouterMIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { igmpInterfaceVersion, igmpInterfaceQuerier,
              igmpInterfaceQueryMaxResponseTime,
              igmpInterfaceRobustness,
              igmpInterfaceWrongVersionQueries,
              igmpInterfaceJoins, igmpInterfaceGroups,
              igmpInterfaceLastMembQueryIntvl,





Expires August 1998                                            [Page 18]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


              igmpInterfaceQuerierUpTime,
              igmpInterfaceQuerierExpiryTime,
              igmpCacheVersion1HostTimer
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of additional objects for management of IGMP
            version 2 in routers."
    ::= { igmpMIBGroups 5 }

igmpV2ProxyMIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { igmpInterfaceProxyIfIndex }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of additional objects for management of IGMP
            proxy devices."
    ::= { igmpMIBGroups 6 }

END































Expires August 1998                                            [Page 19]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


6.  Security Considerations

This MIB contains readable objects whose values provide information
related to multicast sessions.  Some of these objects could contain
sensitive information.  In particular, the igmpCacheSelf and
igmpCacheLastReporter can be used to identify machines which are
listening to a given group address.  There are also a number of objects
that have a MAX-ACCESS clause of read-write and/or read-create, which
allow an administrator to configure IGMP in the router.

While unauthorized access to the readable objects is relatively
innocuous, unauthorized access to the write-able objects could cause a
denial of service.  Hence, the support for SET operations in a non-
secure environment without proper protection can have a negative effect
on network operations.

SNMPv1 by itself is such an insecure environment.  Even if the network
itself is secure (for example by using IPSec), even then, there is no
control as to who on the secure network is allowed to access and SET
(change/create/delete) the objects in this MIB.

It is recommended that the implementers consider the security features
as provided by the SNMPv3 framework.  Specifically, the use of the
User-based Security Model RFC 2274 [12] and the View-based Access
Control Model RFC 2275 [15] is recommended.

It is then a customer/user responsibility to ensure that the SNMP entity
giving access to this MIB, is properly configured to give access to
those objects only to those principals (users) that have legitimate
rights to access them.


7.  Acknowledgements

This MIB module was updated based on feedback from the IETF's Inter-
Domain Multicast Routing (IDMR) Working Group.



8.  Authors' Addresses

     Keith McCloghrie
     cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive
     San Jose, CA  95134-1706





Expires August 1998                                            [Page 20]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


     Phone: +1 408 526 5260
     EMail: kzm@cisco.com

     Dino Farinacci
     cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive
     San Jose, CA  95134-1706
     Phone: +1 408 526 4696
     EMail: dino@cisco.com

     Dave Thaler
     Microsoft Corporation
     One Microsoft Way
     Redmond, WA  48105-6399
     Phone: +1 425 703 8835
     EMail: dthaler@microsoft.com


9.  References

[1]  Harrington, D., Presuhn, R., and B. Wijnen, "An Architecture for
     Describing SNMP Management Frameworks", RFC 2271, Cabletron
     Systems, Inc., BMC Software, Inc., IBM T. J. Watson Research,
     January 1998.

[2]  Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Structure and Identification of
     Management Information for TCP/IP-based Internets", RFC 1155,
     Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems, May 1990.

[3]  Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Concise MIB Definitions", RFC 1212,
     Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems, March 1991.

[4]  M. Rose, "A Convention for Defining Traps for use with the SNMP",
     RFC 1215, Performance Systems International, March 1991.

[5]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Structure
     of Management Information for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902, SNMP Research,Inc., Cisco
     Systems, Inc., Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network
     Services, January 1996.

[6]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Textual
     Conventions for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1903, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,





Expires August 1998                                            [Page 21]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


     January 1996.

[7]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Conformance
     Statements for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1904, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[8]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin, "Simple Network
     Management Protocol", RFC 1157, SNMP Research, Performance Systems
     International, Performance Systems International, MIT Laboratory
     for Computer Science, May 1990.

[9]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser,
     "Introduction to Community-based SNMPv2", RFC 1901, SNMP Research,
     Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.,
     International Network Services, January 1996.

[10] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Transport
     Mappings for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1906, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[11] Case, J., Harrington D., Presuhn R., and B. Wijnen, "Message
     Processing and Dispatching for the Simple Network Management
     Protocol (SNMP)", RFC 2272, SNMP Research, Inc., Cabletron Systems,
     Inc., BMC Software, Inc., IBM T. J. Watson Research, January 1998.

[12] Blumenthal, U., and B. Wijnen, "User-based Security Model (USM) for
     version 3 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv3)", RFC
     2274, IBM T. J. Watson Research, January 1998.

[13] Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Protocol
     Operations for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc.,
     Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network Services,
     January 1996.

[14] Levi, D., Meyer, P., and B. Stewart, "MPv3 Applications", RFC 2273,
     SNMP Research, Inc., Secure Computing Corporation, Cisco Systems,
     January 1998.

[15] Wijnen, B., Presuhn, R., and K. McCloghrie, "View-based Access
     Control Model (VACM) for the Simple Network Management Protocol





Expires August 1998                                            [Page 22]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


     (SNMP)", RFC 2275, IBM T. J. Watson Research, BMC Software, Inc.,
     Cisco Systems, Inc., January 1998.

[16] Deering, S., "Host Extensions for IP Multicasting", RFC 1112,
     Stanford University, August 1989.

[17] Waitzman, D., Partridge, C., and S.E. Deering, "Distance Vector
     Multicast Routing Protocol", RFC 1075, Bolt Beranek and Newman,
     Stanford University, November 1988.

[18] Estrin, D., Farinacci, D., Helmy, A., Thaler, D., Deering, S.,
     Handley, M., Jacobson, V., Liu, C., and P. Sharma, "Protocol
     Independent Multicast - Sparse Mode (PIM-SM): Protocol
     Specification", RFC 2117, June 1997.

[19] Estrin, D., Farinacci, D., Jacobson, V., Liu, C., Wei, L., Sharma,
     P, and Helmy, A., "Protocol Independent Multicast-Dense Mode (PIM-
     DM): Protocol Specification", January 1996.

[20] Moy, J., "Multicast Extensions to OSPF", RFC 1584, Proteon, March
     1994.

[21] Ballardie, A. J., "Core Based Trees (CBT version 2) Multicast
     Routing: Protocol Specification", RFC 2189, September 1997.

[22] Fenner, W., "Internet Group Management Protocol, Version 2", RFC
     2236, November 1997.


10.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1998).  All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implmentation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.





Expires August 1998                                            [Page 23]





Draft                           IGMP MIB                   February 1998


The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS
IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK
FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT
INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."


Table of Contents


1 Introduction ....................................................    1
2 Revision History ................................................    2
3 The SNMP Network Management Framework ...........................    3
3.1 Object Definitions ............................................    4
4 Overview ........................................................    5
5 Definitions .....................................................    6
6 Security Considerations .........................................   20
7 Acknowledgements ................................................   20
8 Authors' Addresses ..............................................   20
9 References ......................................................   21
10 Full Copyright Statement .......................................   23

























Expires August 1998                                            [Page 24]

