
                                                           David Partain
                                                                Ericsson
                                                       Harrie Hazewinkel
                                                                     TBD

                        The DiffServ Policy MIB

                             March 8, 2000
                 draft-ietf-snmpconf-diffpolicy-00.txt
                              Revision 0.0

Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

                                Abstract

    The MIB Module described in this document provides a
    conceptual layer between high-level "network-wide" policy
    definitions that affect configuration of the differentiated
    services (DiffServ) subsystem and the instance-specific
    information that would include such details as the
    parameters for all the queues associated with each interface
    in a system.  This essentially provides an interface for
    configuring DiffServ at a conceptually higher layer than
    that of the DiffServ MIB [1].


1.  TODOs


  * administrivia:  various template things need to be put in (the







Internet Draft                                                March 2000


    internet standard management framework, appropriate references,
    security boilerplate, verify intellectual property clause, the MUST,
    MAY, SHOULD stuff, etc.  There are unresolved references.

  * This document is little more than a skeleton at this point.  The
    convergence of the documents being published in parallel with this
    document are a necessary precursor to putting any real
    flesh on this document.



2.  Introduction

This memo defines a MIB module which can be used to convey information
about desired network-wide DiffServ-based policy behavior.  This module
is designed to integrate with the Policy-based Management MIB module [2]
as well as the DiffServ MIB module published by the DiffServ working
group [1].  Together these three documents represent an instance of an
integrated architecture for both device specific and network-wide policy
management which is fully integrated with the Internet Standard
Management Framework.

This is the first of what is expected to be a wide number of other
network-wide policy modules to be developed in the future in a wide
range of areas.

Within the DiffServ architecture a MIB module is already defined [1]
that operates on a device level.  This MIB should create a coherent
policy configuration management view as an umbrella over this "device
specific" MIB.  That is, this MIB provides a conceptual API for
configuration of DiffServ parameters in a device at a higher level than
the DiffServ MIB.

While the intent of this document is similar to that being defined by
Policy Information Base documents to be used with COPS-PR [????], the
degree of reuse from those documents is unclear.



3.  The Internet Standard Management Framework

Insert framework boilerplate here










Expires September 1999   SNMPCONF Working Group                 [Page 2]





Internet Draft                                                March 2000


4.  Definitions


4.1.  Terms Defined Elsewhere

Two companion documents, the Best Current Practices document [3] and the
Policy-based Management MIB [2] define terms fundamental to the
architecture used for policy-based management using SNMP.  These terms
are:

 - insert the terms defined

Other IETF working groups (such as the POLTERM working group) also have
definitions for some of the same concepts.  To the extent that it is
possible, those definitions will be harmonized with these.


4.2.  Definitions Specific to this Document

The following definitions are specific and required only for this
document:

-  any definitions required will be placed here


5.  Relationship to other MIBs

In this section we describe the relationship to other MIB modules.  The
overall architecture used for policy configuration management is
described in [????]


5.1.  The Policy-based Management MIB module

The Policy-based Management MIB module defines MIB tables which are used
for representing the capabilities of a device with respect to policy
management.  Examples of information which is held in these tables are
which kinds of policy can be configured at this managed entity (e.g.,
DiffServ, VPN, etc.), the configured roles of the elements in these
managed entities, as well as policy filters and policy actions
configured in the managed entity.

The DiffServ Policy MIB references information in the(se) table(s) in
carrying out configuration of the layer below.






Expires September 1999   SNMPCONF Working Group                 [Page 3]





Internet Draft                                                March 2000


TBD: describe precisely which objects are referred.


5.2.  The DiffServ MIB module

The DiffServ MIB[??] provides all of the managed objects required for
configuring DiffServ parameters on a particular device.  It is this
configuration which MAY be done via the API provided by the DiffServ
Policy MIB.


5.3.  Diffserv Policy MIB module

The DiffServ Policy MIB will configure the underlaying differentiated
services architecture via the DiffServ MIB which defines the managed
objects for the DiffServ architecture.

TBD: the direct relationships and objects that are referred to.


6.  MIB Module Design

In this section the overall design of the DIFFSERV-POLICY-MIB is
described. The first part will describe how this module needs to be
placed within the overall architecture. However, it is recognised that
in the future a MIB like this will also be developed for VPNs, or
security.



7.  Managed objects definitions (MIB)

There is not yet a MIB.  The first draft of the MIB should be available
prior to the Adelaide meeting.  If you are interested in this work,
please be certain that you are on the working group mailing list.

This MIB will, as previously stated, provide a glue layer "API" for
managing DiffServ parameters in a "network-wide" manner.



8.  Security Considerations

Security information here






Expires September 1999   SNMPCONF Working Group                 [Page 4]





Internet Draft                                                March 2000


9.  Editors' Addresses

   David Partain
   Ericsson Radio Systems
   Research and Innovation
   P.O. Box 1248
   SE-581 12 Linkoping
   Sweden
   Phone:  +46 13 28 41 44
   EMail:  David.Partain@ericsson.com


   Harrie Hazewinkel
   TBD
   via Galileo Galilei 13
   21018 Sesto Calende (VA)
   Italy
   Phone: +39 0331974135
   Email: harrie@libero.it
































Expires September 1999   SNMPCONF Working Group                 [Page 5]





Internet Draft                                                March 2000


10.  Full Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2000).  All Rights Reserved.

   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
   or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
   and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any
   kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph
   are included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
   developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
   copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be
   followed, or as required to translate it into languages other than
   English.

   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
   revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
   TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
   BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
   HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
   MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."



11.  References

[1]  DiffServ MIB from the DiffServ WG (draft-ietf-diffserv-mib-01.txt)

[2]  Policy-based Management MIB from the SNMPCONF Working Group
     (draft-ietf-snmpconf-xxxx-00.txt)

[3]  Best Current Practices document












Expires September 1999   SNMPCONF Working Group                 [Page 6]





Internet Draft                                                March 2000


Table of Contents



1 TODOs ...........................................................    1
2 Introduction ....................................................    2
3 The Internet Standard Management Framework ......................    2
4 Definitions .....................................................    3
4.1 Terms Defined Elsewhere .......................................    3
4.2 Definitions Specific to this Document .........................    3
5 Relationship to other MIBs ......................................    3
5.1 The Policy-based Management MIB module ........................    3
5.2 The DiffServ MIB module .......................................    4
5.3 Diffserv Policy MIB module ....................................    4
6 MIB Module Design ...............................................    4
7 Managed objects definitions (MIB) ...............................    4
8 Security Considerations .........................................    4
9 Editors' Addresses ..............................................    5
10 Full Copyright Statement .......................................    6
11 References .....................................................    6






























Expires September 1999   SNMPCONF Working Group                 [Page 7]
