






Internet Draft                                             Andy Bierman
                                                    Cisco Systems, Inc.
                                                           21 June 2002


                            Capabilities MIB


                   <draft-ietf-sming-caps-mib-00.txt>





Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026 [RFC2026].

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress".

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

Distribution of this document is unlimited. Please send comments to the
SMIng WG mailing list <sming@ops.ietf.org>.

1.  Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2002).  All Rights Reserved.

2.  Abstract

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In











Internet Draft              Capabilities MIB               June 21, 2002


particular, it describes managed objects for identifying the conformance
capabilities of all management information available from an SNMP agent.

3.  Table of Contents

1 Copyright Notice ................................................    1
2 Abstract ........................................................    1
3 Table of Contents ...............................................    2
4 The SNMP Network Management Framework ...........................    2
5 Overview ........................................................    3
5.1 MIB Structure .................................................    4
5.2 Terms .........................................................    5
6 Definitions .....................................................    5
7 Appendix A: Capabilities Information Usage Examples .............   11
7.1 Full Conformance ..............................................   11
7.2 Full Conformance with some Optional Groups ....................   11
7.3 Previous Revision Conformance .................................   12
7.4 Partial Conformance (I) .......................................   12
7.5 Partial Conformance (II) ......................................   12
7.6 Minimum Conformance ...........................................   13
7.7 Other Conformance .............................................   13
8 Acknowledgements ................................................   14
9 Open Issues .....................................................   14
10 Normative References ...........................................   14
11 Informative References .........................................   16
12 Security Considerations ........................................   17
13 Author's Address ...............................................   17
14 Full Copyright Statement .......................................   18

4.  The SNMP Network Management Framework

   The SNMP Management Framework presently consists of five major
   components:

    o   An overall architecture, described in RFC 2571 [RFC2571].

    o   Mechanisms for describing and naming objects and events for the
        purpose of management. The first version of this Structure of
        Management Information (SMI) is called SMIv1 and described in
        RFC 1155 [RFC1155], RFC 1212 [RFC1212] and RFC 1215 [RFC1215].
        The second version, called SMIv2, is described in RFC 2578
        [RFC2578], RFC 2579 [RFC2579] and RFC 2580 [RFC2580].

    o   Message protocols for transferring management information. The
        first version of the SNMP message protocol is called SNMPv1 and





Expires December 21, 2002                                       [Page 2]





Internet Draft              Capabilities MIB               June 21, 2002


        described in RFC 1157 [RFC1157]. A second version of the SNMP
        message protocol, which is not an Internet standards track
        protocol, is called SNMPv2c and described in RFC 1901 [RFC1901]
        and RFC 1906 [RFC1906].  The third version of the message
        protocol is called SNMPv3 and described in RFC 1906 [RFC1906],
        RFC 2572 [RFC2572] and RFC 2574 [RFC2574].

    o   Protocol operations for accessing management information. The
        first set of protocol operations and associated PDU formats is
        described in RFC 1157 [RFC1157]. A second set of protocol
        operations and associated PDU formats is described in RFC 1905
        [RFC1905].

    o   A set of fundamental applications described in RFC 2573
        [RFC2573] and the view-based access control mechanism described
        in RFC 2575 [RFC2575].

   A more detailed introduction to the current SNMP Management Framework
   can be found in RFC 2570 [RFC2570].

   Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed
   the Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are
   defined using the mechanisms defined in the SMI.

   This memo specifies a MIB module that is compliant to the SMIv2. A
   MIB conforming to the SMIv1 can be produced through the appropriate
   translations. The resulting translated MIB must be semantically
   equivalent, except where objects or events are omitted because no
   translation is possible (use of Counter64). Some machine readable
   information in SMIv2 will be converted into textual descriptions in
   SMIv1 during the translation process. However, this loss of machine
   readable information is not considered to change the semantics of the
   MIB.

5.  Overview

There is a need for a standardized way of retrieving the conformance and
variance information associated with the managed objects support by a
particular agent.  These management capabilities are not currently
retrievable from an agent.

Conformance Statements for SMIv2 [RFC2580] provides the MODULE-
COMPLIANCE macro, which allows the MIB writer to define different
conformance levels, in order to specify various subsets of the full
functionality defined in the MIB module, or allow for new versions of





Expires December 21, 2002                                       [Page 3]





Internet Draft              Capabilities MIB               June 21, 2002


the MIB module.  Unfortunately, an NMS application developer cannot
easily determine the exact conformance level by any given agent
implementation, even those that are following the standard correctly.
For example, it is not always easy to determine which version of a MIB
module is implemented, or if an agent implements the full semantics of
an object or the semantics refined by one of potentially several OBJECT
clauses (in different MODULE-COMPLIANCE macros).

The AGENT-CAPABILITIES macro allows an SNMP developer to determine
conformance information for specific objects for a particular release of
a particular product.  Unfortunately, this information is not available
in any form from the agent. Instead, it is maintained as a text file by
the network administrator.  The sysORTable [RFC1907] allows an agent to
advertise which AGENT-CAPABILITIES macros are supported, but this is
insufficient because these macros are stored in external files, and
since they are optional, agent developers are not required to provide
these files.

5.1.  MIB Structure

The Capabilities MIB contains a single group of objects, which contains
a single scalar, called 'capsLastUpdateTime', and a single table, called
the 'capsTable'.

The 'capsLastUpdateTime' allows an NMS application to determine if the
contents of the 'capsTable' have changed over time.  The 'capsTable'
identifies conformance and variance capabilities information for a
specified MIB sub-tree. If multiple (overlapping) entries exist for a
particular portion of the MIB sub-tree, then the most specific entry
(i.e. longest match) has precedence.  The following objects are
contained in the 'capsTable':

capsModuleCompliance
     An OID pointer to MODULE-COMPLIANCE macro pertaining to the set of
     objects, as implemented by the agent.

capsConfLevel
     An enumerated integer describing the basic conformance level to the
     specification for the set of objects, as implemented by the agent.

capsVarSyntax
     A string describing the semantic variation for a set of MIB objects
     or a single MIB object. This usually consists of the SYNTAX clause
     within the the VARIATION clause that would be present in an AGENT-
     CAPABILITIES macro for the specified object, or the SYNTAX, WRITE-





Expires December 21, 2002                                       [Page 4]





Internet Draft              Capabilities MIB               June 21, 2002


     SYNTAX and/or MIN-ACCESS clauses that would be present in the
     OBJECT macro within a MODULE-COMPLIANCE macro.

5.2.  Terms

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119. [RFC2119]

6.  Definitions

CAPABILITIES-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
        MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, mib-2
                FROM SNMPv2-SMI
        MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP
                FROM SNMPv2-CONF
        TEXTUAL-CONVENTION, TimeStamp
                FROM SNMPv2-TC;

capabilitiesMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED    "200206180000Z"
    ORGANIZATION    "IETF SMIng Working Group"
    CONTACT-INFO
            "        Andy Bierman
                     Cisco Systems, Inc.
                Tel: +1 408 527-3711
             E-mail: abierman@cisco.com
             Postal: 170 West Tasman Drive
                     San Jose, CA USA 95134

             Send comments to <sming@ops.ietf.org>"
    DESCRIPTION
            "Contains objects which describe the conformance
             level capabilities for specific MIB objects."
    REVISION  "200206180000Z"
       DESCRIPTION
            "Initial version."
  ::= { mib-2 xxx }   -- unassigned


capsMibObjects       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { capabilitiesMIB 1 }
capsMibNotifications OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { capabilitiesMIB 2 }
capsMibConformance   OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { capabilitiesMIB 3 }





Expires December 21, 2002                                       [Page 5]





Internet Draft              Capabilities MIB               June 21, 2002


capsMibConformanceObjects OBJECT IDENTIFIER
                                       ::= { capsMibObjects 1 }


--
-- Textual Conventions
--

ConformanceLevel ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An indication of the conformance level for a particular set
            of MIB objects.

            The value 'noConf' indicates that the agent does not
            implement any of the required semantics for the associated
            set of objects.  Usually this means the object is not
            implemented at all.  However, it also indicates the special
            case in which incorrect values are returned, e.g., counter
            objects that always return zero, string objects that always
            return a zero-length string (but should not), hard-wired
            (potentially incorrect) enumerations or gauges.

            The value 'otherConf' indicates that the implementation
            complies with the semantics of the associated set of objects
            in a manner that varies from the specification in some way.

            The value 'minConf' indicates that the implementation
            complies with the semantics of the associated set of objects
            as refined by a GROUP clause or an OBJECT clause within a
            MODULE-COMPLIANCE macro.

            The value 'fullConf' indicates that the implementation
            complies with the semantics of the associated set of objects
            as defined by an indicated compliance statement for the set
            of objects.

            The value 'completeConf' indicates that the implementation
            complies with the full semantics of the associated set of
            objects as defined by the data definitions for the objects.
            This may be greater than than the conformance level
            indicated by the 'fullConf' enumeration if the indicated
            compliance statement does not require full implementation of
            the entire set of objects."
    REFERENCE





Expires December 21, 2002                                       [Page 6]





Internet Draft              Capabilities MIB               June 21, 2002


       "RFC 2580, section 5."
    SYNTAX INTEGER {
                    noConf(1),
                    otherConf(2),
                    minConf(3),
                    fullConf(4),
                    completeConf(5)
                   }


ConformanceString ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
    STATUS current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An administrative string identifying conformance
            information.

            An object of this type SHOULD follow the encoding rules for
            an SnmpAdminString, except its length is limited to 1024
            octets instead of 255 octets."
    REFERENCE
       "RFC 2571, section 5."
    SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (0..1024))    -- SnmpAdminString

--
-- Conformance Group scalars
--

capsLastUpdateTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      TimeStamp
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of sysUpTime when the agent last added, deleted,
            or modified an entry in the capsTable."
    ::= { capsMibConformanceObjects 1 }

--
-- Capabilities Table
--

capsTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF CapsEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION





Expires December 21, 2002                                       [Page 7]





Internet Draft              Capabilities MIB               June 21, 2002


            "A list of entries describing the MIB conformance
            capabilities for this agent."
    ::= { capsMibConformanceObjects 2 }

capsEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      CapsEntry
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A conceptual row in the capsTable. Entries SHOULD be
            created by the agent at system reinitialization time.
            However, agents MAY create, delete, or modify entries in
            this table to support dynamic loading and unloading of MIB
            modules. It is possible that overlapping entries will exist
            in this table, in which case the more specific entry (i.e.,
            the one with the longest capsSubTree INDEX) takes
            precedence."
    INDEX { capsSubTree }
    ::= { capsTable 1 }


CapsEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    capsSubTree                      OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
    capsModuleCompliance             OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
    capsConfLevel                    ConformanceLevel,
    capsVarSyntax                    ConformanceString }

capsSubTree OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OBJECT IDENTIFIER
    MAX-ACCESS  not-accessible
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The root of the MIB sub-tree associated with this entry.
            This object SHOULD identify an interior node to indicate
            multiple MIB objects or a leaf node to indicate a single MIB
            object."
    ::= { capsEntry 1 }

capsModuleCompliance OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      OBJECT IDENTIFIER
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Identifies the MODULE-COMPLIANCE macro name for the
            associated set of MIB objects. If no appropriate value can





Expires December 21, 2002                                       [Page 8]





Internet Draft              Capabilities MIB               June 21, 2002


            be determined, then the agent will return '0.0'."
    REFERENCE
            "RFC 2580, section 5.5."
    ::= { capsEntry 2 }

capsConfLevel OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ConformanceLevel
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Indicates the basic level of conformance for the associated
            set of MIB objects.

            If this object contains the value 'otherConf', then the
            capsVarSyntax object SHOULD be present for the associated
            entry.

            If this object contains the value 'fullConf', 'minConf', or
            'noConf' then the capsVarSyntax object MAY be present for
            the associated entry.

            If this object contains the value 'completeConf' then the
            capsVarSyntax object SHOULD NOT be present for the
            associated entry."
    REFERENCE
            "RFC 2580, section 5."
    ::= { capsEntry 3 }

capsVarSyntax OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX      ConformanceString
    MAX-ACCESS  read-only
    STATUS      current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A textual representation of the syntactical variation
            described by this entry.

            If the associated capsConfLevel object is equal to
            'otherConf', then this string SHOULD contain the the same
            value as the SYNTAX clause within a VARIATION clause of an
            AGENT-CAPABILITIES macro.

            If the associated capsConfLevel object is equal to
            'minConf', and this entry identifies a set of MIB objects,
            then this string MAY identify the applicable GROUP clause(s)
            associated with the entry.





Expires December 21, 2002                                       [Page 9]





Internet Draft              Capabilities MIB               June 21, 2002


            For all entries in which the associated capsConfLevel object
            is equal to 'minConf', this string SHOULD contain the same
            value as the SYNTAX, WRITE-SYNTAX, and/or MIN-ACCESS clauses
            present within the OBJECT clause of a MODULE-COMPLIANCE
            macro. The actual keyword (e.g., 'SYNTAX') SHOULD precede
            the quoted string value.  Multiple clauses MAY be
            concatenated within a single string, and SHOULD be separated
            by whitespace.  If this entry identifies multiple objects,
            then the same clause(s) must apply to all objects.

            The agent MAY return a zero-length string instead of a
            noSuchInstance exception."
    REFERENCE
            "RFC 2580, sections 5.4.3 and 6.5.2."
    ::= { capsEntry 4 }

--
-- Notification Section  (none defined)
--

--
-- Conformance Section
--

capsMibCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { capsMibConformance 1 }
capsMibGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { capsMibConformance 2 }

capsMibCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Describes the requirements for conformance to the
            Capabilities MIB."
    MODULE  -- this module
        MANDATORY-GROUPS { capsMibConformanceGroup }

    ::= { capsMibCompliances 1 }

-- Object Groups

capsMibConformanceGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS {
             capsLastUpdateTime,
             capsModuleCompliance,
             capsConfLevel,
             capsVarSyntax





Expires December 21, 2002                                      [Page 10]





Internet Draft              Capabilities MIB               June 21, 2002


    }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects used to describe the conformance
            capabilities of the MIB objects supported by an agent."
    ::= { capsMibGroups 1 }

END


7.  Appendix A: Capabilities Information Usage Examples

The Interfaces MIB [RFC2233][RFC2863] is used to demonstrate some
possible applications of the Capabilities MIB. Various Interfaces MIB
capabilities are shown. Similar entries would apply to other MIB modules
as well.

7.1.  Full Conformance

This example shows full conformance to the RFC 2863 version of the
Interfaces MIB. Note that the MODULE-COMPLIANCE allows many objects to
be omitted, as specified by the various GROUP macros.  The enumeration
'fullConf' indicates that the full implementation of all mandatory
objects is supported, even if OBJECT clauses exist for some mandatory
objects.

 - capsTable entry for the entire IF-MIB:
    - capsSubTree INDEX == { ifMIB 1 }
    - capsModuleCompliance == { ifCompliance3 }
    - capsConfLevel == 'fullConf(4)'
    - capsVarSyntax == noSuchInstance (or empty string)

7.2.  Full Conformance with some Optional Groups

This example shows full conformance to the RFC 2863 version of the
Interfaces MIB. In this example, the agent supports the groups required
for character-oriented interfaces with ifSpeed values not exceeding
20,000,000 bits/second.

 - capsTable entry for the entire IF-MIB:
    - capsSubTree INDEX == { ifMIB 1 }
    - capsModuleCompliance == { ifCompliance3 }
    - capsConfLevel == 'fullConf(4)'
    - capsVarSyntax == 'GROUP ifFixedLengthGroup'






Expires December 21, 2002                                      [Page 11]





Internet Draft              Capabilities MIB               June 21, 2002


7.3.  Previous Revision Conformance

This example shows full conformance to the RFC 2233 version of the
Interfaces MIB. In this example, the agent supports all the mandatory
groups, and supports the group for high capacity packet based
interfaces.

 - capsTable entry for the entire IF-MIB:
    - capsSubTree INDEX == { ifMIB 1 }
    - capsModuleCompliance == { ifCompliance2 }
    - capsConfLevel == 'fullConf(4)'
    - capsVarSyntax == 'GROUP ifHCPacketGroup'

7.4.  Partial Conformance (I)

This example shows complete conformance to the RFC 2863 version of the
Interfaces MIB. In this example, the agent supports all the mandatory
groups and all the optional groups, however, the deprecated ifTestTable
is not implemented.

 - capsTable entry for the entire IF-MIB:
    - capsSubTree INDEX == { ifMIB 1 }
    - capsModuleCompliance == { ifCompliance3 }
    - capsConfLevel == 'completeConf(5)'
    - capsVarSyntax == noSuchInstance (or empty string)

 - capsTable entry for the ifTestTable:
    - capsSubTree INDEX == { ifMIBObjects 3 }
    - capsModuleCompliance == { ifCompliance3 }
    - capsConfLevel == 'noConf(1)'
    - capsVarSyntax == noSuchInstance (or empty string)

7.5.  Partial Conformance (II)

This example shows full conformance to the RFC 2863 version of the
ifTable and ifXTable, except for the ifTable non-unicast packet
counters, which are not implemented at all.

 - capsTable entry for the ifTable:
    - capsSubTree INDEX == { interfaces 2 }
    - capsModuleCompliance == { ifCompliance3 }
    - capsConfLevel == 'fullConf(4)'
    - capsVarSyntax == noSuchInstance (or empty string)

 - capsTable entry for the ifXTable:





Expires December 21, 2002                                      [Page 12]





Internet Draft              Capabilities MIB               June 21, 2002


    - capsSubTree INDEX == { ifMIBObjects 1 }
    - capsModuleCompliance == { ifCompliance3 }
    - capsConfLevel == 'fullConf(4)'
    - capsVarSyntax == noSuchInstance (or empty string)

 - capsTable entry for the ifInNUcastPkts:
    - capsSubTree INDEX == { ifEntry 12 }
    - capsModuleCompliance == { ifCompliance3 }
    - capsConfLevel == 'noConf(1)'
    - capsVarSyntax == noSuchInstance (or empty string)

 - capsTable entry for the ifOutNUcastPkts:
    - capsSubTree INDEX == { ifEntry 18 }
    - capsModuleCompliance == { ifCompliance3 }
    - capsConfLevel == 'noConf(1)'
    - capsVarSyntax == noSuchInstance (or empty string)

7.6.  Minimum Conformance

This example shows minimum conformance to the RFC 2863 version of the
ifTable.  In this example, the agent supports all the mandatory objects,
except the table is implemented as read-only.

 - capsTable entry for the ifTable:
    - capsSubTree INDEX == { interfaces 2 }
    - capsModuleCompliance == { ifCompliance3 }
    - capsConfLevel == 'minConf(3)'
    - capsVarSyntax == 'MIN-ACCESS read-only'

7.7.  Other Conformance

This example shows full conformance to the RFC 2863 version of the
ifXTable, except the ifAlias object, which is implemented as a read-
write 32 octet string, instead of a read-write 64 octet string.

 - capsTable entry for the ifXTable:
    - capsSubTree INDEX == { ifMIBObjects 1 }
    - capsModuleCompliance == { ifCompliance3 }
    - capsConfLevel == 'fullConf(4)'
    - capsVarSyntax == noSuchInstance (or empty string)

 - capsTable entry for ifAlias:
    - capsSubTree INDEX == { ifXEntry 18 }
    - capsModuleCompliance == { ifCompliance3 }
    - capsConfLevel == 'otherConf(2)'





Expires December 21, 2002                                      [Page 13]





Internet Draft              Capabilities MIB               June 21, 2002


    - capsVarSyntax == 'SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE(0..32))'

8.  Acknowledgements

This memo is a product of the SMIng working group.

9.  Open Issues

Conformance information for INDEX components
     Should the capsTable be modified to support entries for INDEX
     components, which are not actually represented in MODULE-COMPLIANCE
     macros?

Default capsTable behavior
     Should the absence of a capsEntry indicate any particular
     semantics?

Missing conformance sections
     MODULE-COMPLIANCE sections are not strictly mandatory, but this MIB
     gets around this corner-case (and the missing conformance
     information for INDEX components) by describing the conformance
     information that would be present in an information module, even if
     that information is not actually present.  Are there any problems
     with this approach?

Standardized Entry Format
     There are many different ways to represent the same level of
     support for a given set of MIB objects in the capsTable.  Should
     there be standard guidelines for populating the capsTable for
     various usage scenerios?

10.  Normative References

[RFC1905]
     SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S.
     Waldbusser, "Protocol Operations for Version 2 of the Simple
     Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, SNMP Research,
     Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.,
     International Network Services, January 1996.

[RFC1906]
     SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S.
     Waldbusser, "Transport Mappings for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1906, SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco
     Systems, Inc., Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., International Network





Expires December 21, 2002                                      [Page 14]





Internet Draft              Capabilities MIB               June 21, 2002


     Services, January 1996.

[RFC2026]
     Bradner, S., "The Internet Standards Process -- Revision 3", RFC
     2026, Harvard University, October, 1996.

[RFC2119]
     S. Bradner, "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
     Levels" RFC 2119, Harvard University, March 1997.

[RFC2571]
     Harrington, D., Presuhn, R., and B. Wijnen, "An Architecture for
     Describing SNMP Management Frameworks", RFC 2571, Cabletron
     Systems, Inc., BMC Software, Inc., IBM T. J. Watson Research, April
     1999.

[RFC2572]
     Case, J., Harrington D., Presuhn R., and B. Wijnen, "Message
     Processing and Dispatching for the Simple Network Management
     Protocol (SNMP)", RFC 2572, SNMP Research, Inc., Cabletron Systems,
     Inc., BMC Software, Inc., IBM T. J. Watson Research, April 1999.

[RFC2573]
     Levi, D., Meyer, P., and B. Stewart, "SNMPv3 Applications", RFC
     2573, SNMP Research, Inc., Secure Computing Corporation, Cisco
     Systems, April 1999.

[RFC2574]
     Blumenthal, U., and B. Wijnen, "User-based Security Model (USM) for
     version 3 of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv3)", RFC
     2574, IBM T. J. Watson Research, April 1999.

[RFC2575]
     Wijnen, B., Presuhn, R., and K. McCloghrie, "View-based Access
     Control Model (VACM) for the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMP)", RFC 2575, IBM T. J. Watson Research, BMC Software, Inc.,
     Cisco Systems, Inc., April 1999.

[RFC2578]
     McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J., Rose, M.,
     and S. Waldbusser, "Structure of Management Information Version 2
     (SMIv2)", RFC 2578, STD 58, Cisco Systems, SNMPinfo, TU
     Braunschweig, SNMP Research, First Virtual Holdings, International
     Network Services, April 1999.






Expires December 21, 2002                                      [Page 15]





Internet Draft              Capabilities MIB               June 21, 2002


[RFC2579]
     McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J., Rose, M.,
     and S. Waldbusser, "Textual Conventions for SMIv2", RFC 2579, STD
     58, Cisco Systems, SNMPinfo, TU Braunschweig, SNMP Research, First
     Virtual Holdings, International Network Services, April 1999.

[RFC2580]
     McCloghrie, K., Perkins, D., Schoenwaelder, J., Case, J., Rose, M.,
     and S. Waldbusser, "Conformance Statements for SMIv2", RFC 2580,
     STD 58, Cisco Systems, SNMPinfo, TU Braunschweig, SNMP Research,
     First Virtual Holdings, International Network Services, April 1999.

11.  Informative References

[RFC1155]
     Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Structure and Identification of
     Management Information for TCP/IP-based Internets", RFC 1155,
     Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems, May 1990.

[RFC1157]
     Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin, "Simple Network
     Management Protocol", RFC 1157, SNMP Research, Performance Systems
     International, Performance Systems International, MIT Laboratory
     for Computer Science, May 1990.

[RFC1212]
     Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, "Concise MIB Definitions", RFC 1212,
     Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems, March 1991.

[RFC1215]
     M. Rose, "A Convention for Defining Traps for use with the SNMP",
     RFC 1215, Performance Systems International, March 1991.

[RFC1901]
     SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S.
     Waldbusser, "Introduction to Community-based SNMPv2", RFC 1901,
     SNMP Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Dover Beach Consulting,
     Inc., International Network Services, January 1996.

[RFC1907]
     SNMPv2 Working Group, Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S.
     Waldbusser, "Management Information Base for Version 2 of the
     Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1907, SNMP
     Research, Inc., Cisco Systems, Inc., Dover Beach Consulting, Inc.,
     International Network Services, January 1996.





Expires December 21, 2002                                      [Page 16]





Internet Draft              Capabilities MIB               June 21, 2002


[RFC2233]
     McCloghrie, K., and F. Kastenholz, "The Interfaces Group MIB Using
     SMIv2", RFC 2233, Cisco Systems, FTP Software, November, 1997.

[RFC2570]
     Case, J., Mundy, R., Partain, D., and B. Stewart, "Introduction to
     Version 3 of the Internet-standard Network Management Framework",
     RFC 2570, SNMP Research, Inc., TIS Labs at Network Associates,
     Inc., Ericsson, Cisco Systems, April 1999.

[RFC2863]
     McCloghrie, K., and F. Kastenholz, "The Interfaces Group MIB", RFC
     2863, Cisco Systems, Argon Networks, June, 2000.

12.  Security Considerations

There are no managed objects defined in this MIB that have a MAX-ACCESS
clause of read-write and/or read-create.

There are no managed objects in this MIB that may contain sensitive
information.

SNMPv1 by itself is not a secure environment.  Even if the network
itself is secure (for example by using IPSec), even then, there is no
control as to who on the secure network is allowed to access and GET the
objects in this MIB.

It is recommended that the implementors consider the security features
as provided by the SNMPv3 framework.  Specifically, the use of the User-
based Security Model RFC 2574 [RFC2574] and the View-based Access
Control Model RFC 2575 [RFC2575] is recommended.

It is then a customer/user responsibility to ensure that the SNMP entity
giving access to an instance of this MIB, is properly configured to give
access to the objects only to those principals (users) that have
legitimate rights to GET them.

13.  Author's Address

     Andy Bierman
     Cisco Systems, Inc.
     170 West Tasman Drive
     San Jose, CA USA 95134
     Phone: +1 408-527-3711
     Email: abierman@cisco.com





Expires December 21, 2002                                      [Page 17]





Internet Draft              Capabilities MIB               June 21, 2002


14.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2002).  All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS
IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK
FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT
INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
























Expires December 21, 2002                                      [Page 18]

