





INTERNET-DRAFT                                 Jeff Hodges, Oblix Inc.
Intended Category:                 RL "Bob" Morgan, Univ of Washington
  Standards Track                                        October, 2000
Updates: 2251, 2252, 2253, 2254,
  2255, 2256, 2829, 2830


              Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (v3):
                        Technical Specification

                <draft-hodges-ldapbis-ldapv3-ts-00.txt>



                        Status of this Document

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

Comments and suggestions on this document are encouraged.  Comments on
this document should be sent to the LDAPbis BOF discussion list:

                       ietf-ldapbis@OpenLDAP.org

This document expires in May 2001.



Abstract

This document specifies the set of RFCs comprising LDAPv3, and documents
the addressing of the "IESG Note" attached to RFCs 2251 through 2256.




Hodges, Morgan                                                  [Page 1]

I-D              LDAPv3: Technical Specification            October 2000


1.  Background and Motivation

The specification for the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol version
3 (LDAPv3) nominally comprises eight RFCs which were issued in two dis-
tinct subsets at separate times (RFCs 2251 through 2256 first, then RFCs
2829 and 2830 following later).

RFCs 2251 through 2256 are each embellished with an "IESG Note" (Note)
warning implementors and deployers of potential interoperability prob-
lems due to the lack of a specification of mandatory-to-implement
authentication mechanism(s).

The purpose of this document is to remedy both issues by explicitly
specifying the set of RFCs comprising LDAPv3 and documenting the fact
that the IESG now considers the "IESG Note" as "addressed" given the
specification of mandatory-to-implement authentication mechanisms in RFC
2829.

2.  Conventions Used in this Document

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in [RFC2119].

3.  Specification of LDAPv3

The Lightweight Directory Access Protocol version 3 (LDAPv3) is speci-
fied by this set of nine RFCs:


   [RFC2251]  Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (v3)
              [the specification of the LDAP on-the-wire protocol]

   [RFC2252]  Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (v3):
              Attribute Syntax Definitions

   [RFC2253]  Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (v3):
              UTF-8 String Representation of Distinguished Names

   [RFC2254]  The String Representation of LDAP Search Filters

   [RFC2255]  The LDAP URL Format

   [RFC2256]  A Summary of the X.500(96) User Schema for use
              with LDAPv3

   [RFC2829]  Authentication Methods for LDAP




Hodges, Morgan                                                  [Page 2]

I-D              LDAPv3: Technical Specification            October 2000


   [RFC2830]  Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (v3):
              Extension for Transport Layer Security

   And, this document (RFCxxxx).


The term "LDAPv3" MAY be used to informally refer to the protocol speci-
fied by this set of RFCs. The LDAPv3 protocol suite, as defined here,
SHOULD be formally referenced by a normative reference to this document.

Other RFCs (and perhaps Internet-Drafts) MAY specify extensions to
LDAPv3.  Nomenclature denoting such combinations of LDAPv3-plus-
extension(s) is not defined by this document, and MAY be defined in some
future document(s).

4.  Addressing the "IESG Note" on RFCs 2251 through 2256

The IESG approved publishing RFCs 2251 through 2256 with an attendant
Note included in each document.  The Note begins with..

   This document describes a directory access protocol that provides
   both read and update access.  Update access requires secure authenti-
   cation, but this document does not mandate implementation of any
   satisfactory authentication mechanisms.

The Note ends with this statement..

   Implementors are hereby discouraged from deploying LDAPv3 clients or
   servers which implement the update functionality, until a Proposed
   Standard for mandatory authentication in LDAPv3 has been approved and
   published as an RFC.

[RFC2829] is the "Proposed Standard for mandatory authentication in
LDAPv3" called for in the Note. Therefore, the IESG considers the Note
on [RFC2251], [RFC2252], [RFC2253], [RFC2254], [RFC2255], and [RFC2256]
as being addressed.

5.  Security Considerations

This document does not directly discuss security, although the context
of the aforementioned "IESG Note" is security related, as is the manner
in which the Note is addressed.

Please refer to the referenced documents, especially [RFC2829],
[RFC2251], and [RFC2830], for further information concerning LDAPv3
security.





Hodges, Morgan                                                  [Page 3]

I-D              LDAPv3: Technical Specification            October 2000


6.  Acknowledgements

The authors thank Patrick Falstrom, Leslie Daigle, and Kurt Zeilenga for
their contributions to this document.

7.  References

[RFC2119]   Scott Bradner. "Key Words for use in RFCs to Indicate
            Requirement Levels". RFC 2119, March 1997.

[RFC2251]   M. Wahl, S. Kille and T. Howes, "Lightweight Directory
            Access Protocol (v3)", RFC 2251, December 1997.

[RFC2252]   M. Wahl, A. Coulbeck, T. Howes, and S. Kille, "Lightweight
            Directory Access Protocol (v3): Attribute Syntax Defini-
            tions", RFC 2252, December 1997.

[RFC2253]   S. Kille, M. Wahl, and T. Howes, "Lightweight Directory
            Access Protocol (v3): UTF-8 String Representation of Dis-
            tinguished Names", RFC 2253, December 1997.

[RFC2254]   T. Howes, "The String Representation of LDAP Search
            Filters", RFC 2254, December 1997.

[RFC2255]   T. Howes, M. Smith, "The LDAP URL Format", RFC 2255,
            December 1997.

[RFC2256]   M. Wahl, "A Summary of the X.500(96) User Schema for use
            with LDAPv3", RFC 2256, December 1997.

[RFC2829]   M. Wahl, H. Alvestrand, J. Hodges, R. Morgan. "Authentica-
            tion Methods for LDAP", RFC 2829, May 2000.

[RFC2830]   J. Hodges, R. Morgan, M. Wahl, "Lightweight Directory Access
            Protocol (v3): Extension for Transport Layer Security", RFC
            2830, May 2000.

8.  Authors' Addresses

   Jeff Hodges
   Oblix, Inc.
   18922 Forge Drive
   Cupertino, CA 95014
   USA

   Phone: +1-408-861-6656
   EMail: JHodges@oblix.com




Hodges, Morgan                                                  [Page 4]

I-D              LDAPv3: Technical Specification            October 2000


   RL "Bob" Morgan
   Computing and Communications
   University of Washington
   Seattle, WA
   USA

   Phone: +1-206-221-3307
   EMail: rlmorgan@washington.edu


                  -----------------------------------

9.  Intellectual Property Rights Notices

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any intel-
lectual property or other rights that might be claimed to  pertain to
the implementation or use of the technology described in this document
or the extent to which any license under such rights might or might not
be available; neither does it represent that it has made any effort to
identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's procedures with
respect to rights in standards-track and standards-related documentation
can be found in BCP-11.  Copies of claims of rights made available for
publication and any assurances of licenses to be made available, or the
result of an attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for
the use of such proprietary rights by implementors or users of this
specification can be obtained from the IETF Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights
which may cover technology that may be required to practice this stan-
dard.  Please address the information to the IETF Executive Director.

10.  Copyright Notice and Disclaimer

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1998).  All Rights Reserved.

   This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
   others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it
   or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published
   and distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any
   kind, provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are
   included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this
   document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing
   the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other
   Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of develop-
   ing Internet standards in which case the procedures for copyrights
   defined in the Internet Standards process must be followed, or as
   required to translate it into languages other than English.



Hodges, Morgan                                                  [Page 5]

I-D              LDAPv3: Technical Specification            October 2000


   The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
   revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

   This document and the information contained herein is provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING
   TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING
   BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION
   HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MER-
   CHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


                    -----------------------------------

   This document expires in January 2001.





































Hodges, Morgan                                                  [Page 6]

