Traffic Engineering Working Group                              Ken Owens
Internet Draft                                             Vishal Sharma
Expiration Date: September 2000                 Tellabs Operations, Inc.
                                                                        
                                                           Mathew Oommen
                                                 Williams Communications
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                                        
                                                              March 2000
                                                                        


 Network Survivability Considerations for Traffic Engineered IP Networks

               draft-owens-te-network-survivability-00.txt

Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups. Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsolete by other documents at any
time. It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.


Abstract

Network survivability refers to the capability of the network to
maintain service continuity in the presence of faults within the network
[1]. This can be accomplished by recovering from network failures
rapidly and maintaining the required QoS for existing services after
recovery. With the increasing sophistication of network technologies,
survivability capabilities are becoming available at multiple layers,
allowing for protection and restoration to occur at any layer of the
network. This makes it important to: scrutinize the recovery features of
different network layers, understand the pros and cons of performing
recovery at each layer, and assess how the interactions between layers

Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-00.txt    March, 2000



Owens/Sharma et. al.    Expires September 2000                      1

impact network survivability. With these objectives in mind, this draft
examines the considerations for network survivability at different
layers of the network.


Table of Contents                                                 Page
                                                                  
Abstract                                                          
1. Introduction                                                        2
2. Overview of Survivability in Traffic Engineered Networks            3
3. Purpose of This Document                                            5
4. Motivation                                                          5
5. Network Survivability Objectives                                    6
6. Network Survivability Parameter Considerations                      7
   6.1 Time-scale of Operations                                        8
   6.2 Resource Efficiency                                             8
   6.3 Signaling                                                       8
   6.4 Recovery Granularity                                            8
   6.5 QoS Granularity                                                 8
   6.6 Coverage                                                        9
   6.7 Fault Monitoring and Reporting                                  9
   6.8 Interactions with Other Layers                                  9
7. Network Survivability Layer Considerations                          9
   7.1 Optical Layer                                                   9
   7.2 SONET/SDH Layer                                                11
   7.3 ATM and/or MPLS Layer                                          12
   7.4 IP Layer                                                       14
   7.5 Transport Layers                                               15
   7.6 Coordination between Layers                                    15
8. Security Considerations                                            16
9. Acknowledgements                                                   16
10. References                                                        16
11. Authors∆ Addresses                                                17



1. Introduction

With the increasing demand to carry mission critical traffic, real-time
traffic, and other high priority traffic over the public Internet [1],
network survivability has become an issue of great concern for the
Internet community. As network technologies continue to improve, failure
protection and restoration capabilities have become available from
multiple layers.

At the lowest layer of the stack, optical networks are now becoming
capable of providing dynamic ring and mesh restoration functionality as
well as traditional 1+1 or 1:1 protection functionality. A considerable
body of work in the research community has dealt with the capacity and
efficiency considerations inherent in the layout of optical lightpaths

Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-00.txt    March, 2000



Owens/Sharma et. al.    Expires September 2000                      2

for traffic protection, and work is ongoing [2],[3],[4],[5],[6],[7] to
develop a signaling framework to support even more sophisticated
restoration features at the optical layer for future IP-over-WDM
networks. Moving up the layered stack, the SONET/SDH layer provides
survivability capability with automatic protection switching (APS), as
well as self-healing ring and mesh architectures. A similar
functionality is provided by the ATM Layer, with work ongoing to also
provide such functionality using technologies such as the MPLS Layer[8].
At the IP layer, rerouting is used to restore service continuity
following link and node outages. Rerouting at the IP layer, however,
occurs after a period of routing convergence, which may require from a
few seconds to several minutes to complete.

Another important aspect of multi-layer survivability is that the
various technologies operating at different layers provide protection
and restoration capabilities at different temporal granularities (i.e.,
time scales), ranging from a few tens of milliseconds to minutes, at
different bandwidth granularities (i.e.,from packet-level to wavelength
level), ranging from a few kilobits per second to hundreds of gigabits
per second, and at different QoS granularities, ranging from aggregated
traffic classes (e.g., diffserv classes) to individual traffic
streams/flows (e.g., per VC or per-IP flow). It is, therefore, a
challenging task to combine in a coordinated manner the different
restoration capabilities available across the layers to ensure that
certain network survivability goals are met for the different services
that are supported by the network.


2. Overview of Survivability in Traffic Engineered Networks

Traditional IP networks supported only one class of service, the best-
effort class, and focussed primarily on connectivity. Network
survivability in such an environment merely involved the restoration of
network connectivity, which was provided by layer 3 re-routing alone and
was acceptable, since this was all that was needed.  A difficulty with
relying on the routing algorithms alone was that the amount of time that
the algorithms took to converge and restore service could be
significant, on the order of several seconds to minutes, causing a
disruption of service in the interim. Although this was not a concern
with best-effort traffic, it does become a significant concern when the
aim is to provide highly reliable service, where the recovery times
needed might be of the order of tens of milliseconds.

With the increasing need for explicit engineering of network traffic
loads, however, it has become imperative for traffic engineering
mechanisms to take network survivability considerations into account. An
important objective of contemporary and future Internet traffic
engineering, in fact, is to facilitate reliable network operations by
providing mechanisms that enhance network integrity and by adopting

Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-00.txt    March, 2000



Owens/Sharma et. al.    Expires September 2000                      3

policies that accommodate network survivability [1]. This is important
both to minimize the vulnerability of the network to service outages
arising from errors, faults, and failures that occur within the
infrastructure, and to optimize the performance of operational IP
networks.

Network faults, be they link outages (fiber cuts, transmitter failures,
etc.) or node outages (mis-configuration, processor or line card
failures, power glitches, power supply failures, etc.), will continue to
be a fact of life that network engineering will have to accommodate.
Whereas in the past this only meant ensuring that network connectivity
was restored following an outage, in current networks it means ensuring
that network connectivity with an adequate performance level is restored
following a fault.
Thus, any traffic-engineered network that carries critical, high-
priority traffic needs to be resilient to faults. Indeed, an engineered
network that is not survivable cannot be said to be truly traffic
engineered, since faults in the network elements could create traffic
imbalances that the network is not geared to handle, thereby severely
compromising the performance of the network.

A major objective of Internet traffic engineering is to enhance the
performance of an operational network at both the traffic and resource
levels. This is accomplished by addressing traffic-oriented performance
requirements, while utilizing network resources efficiently, reliably,
and economically. Traffic oriented performance measures include delay,
delay variation, packet loss, and goodput [1]. The scope and nature of
survivability required in different parts of the network should form an
integral part of the traffic engineering process model. In fact,
survivability requirements would influence the first (definition of
relevant control policies), second (analysis of network state to
characterize traffic workload), and third (performance optimization of
the network) phases of the TE process model defined in Section 3 of [1].

Incorporating survivability requirements into traffic engineering
computations and the protection of traffic at different layers of the
network is useful for a number of reasons:

(i) The most important is its ability to ensure stable network
operation, which is a major consideration in real-time network
performance optimization.  A major challenge for Internet traffic
engineering today is the realization of automated control capabilities
that can adapt quickly and at a reasonable cost to significant changes
in network state, while maintaining network stability [1]. Clearly, this
challenge cannot be met without accounting for potential network
outages, and including them in the TE calculations.

Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-00.txt    March, 2000



Owens/Sharma et. al.    Expires September 2000                      4

(ii) Survivability considerations also impact the manner in which
traffic is groomed at different layers (more on this in Sections 5 and
6), and the manner in which it is mapped to the underlying physical or
logical topology at different layers of the network. An important
function of TE is to control the distribution of traffic across the
network, a task that is strongly influenced by the manner in which
traffic is protected at different layers, and by how much traffic is
protected at different network layers.

(iii) Yet another advantage is the ability to increase network
reliability by enabling a faster response to faults and outages than is
possible with a single layer alone (in particular, than is possible with
Layer 3 or IP layer rerouting alone).

(iv) Protection at different layers gives the provider the flexibility
to choose the granularity at which traffic is protected, and to also
choose the specific types of traffic that are protected.

(v) A protection mechanism at different layers (for example, the optical
[3] and MPLS [9] layers) could enable IP traffic to be put directly over
WDM optical channels, without an intervening SONET layer, thereby
facilitating the construction of IP-over-WDM networks.


3. Purpose of This Document

The purpose of this document is to examine the survivability features
and characteristics of different network layers, point out the
advantages and limitations of each, consider how they impact network
traffic engineering, and highlight areas where further work may be
needed, either in terms of independently extending the functionality of
the existing layers or in terms of developing inter-layer coordination
mechanisms to facilitate fast and efficient network protection. The
document is intended to expose those areas pertaining to network
survivability that require further work by the Internet community, and
to serve as a basis for the Traffic Engineering Working Group to make
recommendations to other Working Groups about network survivability
issues that require further consideration in the respective Working
Groups.


4.Motivation
  
The need for network survivability and for open standards in
protection/restoration at different network layers arises because of the
following:

-- Lower layer mechanisms (Optical Layer and SONET/SDH Layer) have no
visibility into higher layer operations (for example protocol errors,

Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-00.txt    March, 2000



Owens/Sharma et. al.    Expires September 2000                      5

priority identification, and reroute calculation).  Thus, while they may
provide link protection for example, they cannot easily provide node
protection.

-- Optical Layer or SONET/SDH Layer mechanisms may initially be limited
to ring topologies and may not always include mesh protection.

-- MPLS/ATM Layer may provide protocol-level node survivability, but may
not be able to detect physical layer impairments.

-- IP Layer rerouting may be too slow for a core IP network that needs
to support high reliability/availability. Fault isolation is more
difficult at the IP Layer than at the optical or SONET/SDH Layers.

-- Higher layer mechanisms (TCP, UDP, OSPF, and BGP) have limited
visibility into lower layer operations (for example, into the optical
and SONET/SDH layer physical failures).

-- Establishing interoperability of recovery/protection mechanisms
between multi-vendor equipment in core IP networks is urgently required
to enable adoption of IP as a viable core transport technology and to
facilitate the traffic engineering of future multi-service IP networks.


5. Network Survivability Objectives

It is useful at this point to consider some of the objectives for
network survivability. We propose the following generic objectives for
network survivability.

5.1 Survivability Mechanisms

Network survivability mechanisms SHOULD:

-- Maximize network reliability and availability.
-- Facilitate fast recovery times where appropriate.

Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-00.txt    March, 2000



Owens/Sharma et. al.    Expires September 2000                     6

-- Take into consideration the recovery actions of different layers. For
instance, if lower layer mechanisms are utilized in conjunction with
higher layer survivability mechanisms, the lower layers should have an
opportunity to restore traffic before the higher layers do. If lower
layer restoration is slower than higher layer restoration, the lower
layer may communicate failure information to the higher layer(s), and
allow it to perform recovery.
-- Avoid network layering violations. That is, defects at higher
layer(s) should not normally trigger recovery actions at lower layers.
-- Minimize the loss of data and packet reordering during recovery
operations.
-- Minimize the additive latency that may be incurred when recovery is
activated.
-- Minimize the state overhead of maintaining recovery information (such
as additional paths, the association between traffic streams and paths,
the association between what traffic is protected at which layers, and
so on).
-- Be designed into the existing protocols to give as much flexibility
as possible to the network operator. In fact, the operator should have
some alternatives to choose from when deciding what type of protection
to implement. The most logical way to achieve this would be to use
alternatives that are realizable by using the mechanisms currently
defined for each layer. The next few sections discuss some of these
alternatives.

5.2. Survivability Actions

Network survivability actions SHOULD:

-- Not adversely affect other network operations.
-- Not adversely affect recovery actions at a different layer.
-- Not adversely affect the survivability actions within different
protection domain(s) -within a given layer.

5.3. Survivability Techniques

Network survivability techniques SHOULD:
-- Be specifiable for dedicated or shared protection of working traffic.
-- Be specifiable on an end-to-end basis or on a segment basis. (For
example, at the ATM , MPLS, or IP layer survivability should be
specifiable for an end-to-end path or for a segment of a path.)
-- Be specifiable for protection of traffic at different granularities
(for example, temporal, bandwidth, and QoS granularities; more on this
in Section 6).
-- Be specifiable for protection of traffic having different
transmission and/or preemption priorities.


6. Network Survivability: -Parameter Considerations

In this section, we focus on considerations that affect the choice of
the recovery scheme, and also the specific layer(s) at which network
providers may choose to perform recovery.

6.1. Time-scale of Operations

The time-scale of the recovery operation is an important factor in
determining which layer to perform network survivability. In a generic
sense, the closer to the fault the faster the recovery. However, faults
occur at different layers and not all layers have visibility to all
faults at the different layers. The time-scale of recovery operations

Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-00.txt    March, 2000



Owens/Sharma et. al.    Expires September 2000                      7

must be considered when choosing the network survivability mechanism(s).


6.2. Resource Efficiency

The efficient use of the network resources varies from one layer to the
next. The resource efficiency of recovery operations must be considered
when choosing the network survivability mechanism(s).


6.3. Signaling Mechanisms

In order to perform end-to-end and segment recovery operations, there
has to exist a signaling mechanism to notify the network recovery
operation. Some layers have this capability inherently (for example IP
Layer), others (for example optical layer) do not. The signaling
mechanisms initiate the recovery operations and must be considered when
choosing the network survivability mechanism.


6.4. Recovery Granularity

The recovery granularity of the different layer recovery operations
should be a key requirement in network survivability. In a generic
sense, the higher the layer, the finer the granularity. The Optical and
SONET Layers can only recover full pipes (i.e. OC48 Granularity),
whereas IP Layers can recover individual packets or groups of packets.
The recovery granularity must be considered when choosing the network
survivability mechanism.


6.5 QoS Granularity

The QoS granularity is a key requirement for Traffic Engineering and
therefore for recovery operations. The QoS granularity must be
considered when choosing the network survivability mechanism.


6.6. Coverage

The coverage desired by the recovery operation must be defined. Each
layer provides adequate coverage for that layer, but perhaps not
adequate coverage of the other layers. To provide more optimal coverage
of the layers, interworking of recovery mechanisms between two or more
layers should be considered. For example, combining the Optical Layer
fast detection of a link layer failure with notification to the IP layer
that rerouting must occur will provide coverage of both the Optical

Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-00.txt    March, 2000



Owens/Sharma et. al.    Expires September 2000                      8

Layer and the IP Layer. The recovery coverage must be considered when
choosing the network survivability mechanism.


6.7. Fault Monitoring/Reporting

The key aspect of recovery operations is the ability to detect faults.
It is important to understand the various faults that each layer can
detect, the fault monitoring capabilities and the fault reporting
mechanism. The fault monitoring and reporting mechanisms must be
considered when choosing the network survivability mechanism.


6.8. Interlayer Considerations/Layer Interactions

As previously mentioned in the coverage considerations, there are many
advantages to providing a recovery mechanism that interoperates across
one or more layers. Any such mechanism must not violate any one-layer
recovery operations or cause another layer to incorrectly recover due to
a different layer operation. The consideration for providing layer
interactions between the different layers is discussed in the next
section.

7. Network Survivability: Layer Considerations

In this Section we focus on the specifics of the different layers in the
light of the discussions in the previous Section. We enumerate the pros
and cons of undertaking network protection/restoration at each of these
layers, and consider the issue of systematically coordinating the
actions of these layers to achieve enhanced network survivability and
improved network operation.

7.1. Optical Layer

The optical layer is increasingly becoming the de facto physical layer
in most core transport networks. With the advent of DWDM technology, the
optical layer is now capable of providing very high bandwidth pipes (on
the order of a 100 wavelengths per fiber, each operating at up to 10
Gb/s) that can be routed over large WANs or backbone networks to provide
extremely high data rate connectivity between smaller, geographically
dispersed networks.

The advantages of the optical layer are:
(i)     Fast fault/failure detection: the loss of light or carrier
       signal at the optical layer can be detected quickly by the end node
       equipment. Thus, end points of a link, and, in some cases, lightpaths
       (such as when there is 1+1 protection), can detect link failure within a

Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-00.txt    March, 2000



Owens/Sharma et. al.    Expires September 2000                      9

       relatively short period of time (a few milliseconds)[10], and can switch
       to a backup lightpath, if configured.
(ii)    Large switching granularity: the optical layer has the capacity
       to restore very large numbers of higher layer flows. For example,
       hundreds of LSPs or ATM VCs that would ordinarily be affected by a
       single link failure (such as a fiber cut) could be restored
       simultaneously at the optical layer without the need to invoke higher
       layer signaling, which can be computationally expensive and slow (since
       it may require processing by intermediate nodes, and must invariably
       encounter propagation delay).

Some current limitations of the optical layer are:
(i)     Limited range of granularity: The optical layer can only restore
       the traffic at lightpath granularity, and is therefore suitable when all
       the data on a lightpath requires protection/restoration.
(ii)    No discrimination between different traffic types: The optical
       layer being bit-transparent is oblivious to actual traffic content on a
       lightpath and cannot, in general, differentiate between different
       traffic types. We note that some discrimination may be possible based
       purely on the physical and transmission properties of the lightpaths
       concerned, such as loss, dispersion, jitter, crosstalk, etc. The
       physical and transmission properties of the lightpaths provide a way to
       discriminate between the quality of the lightpaths themselves, and may
       not necessarily translate into higher layer QoS goals.
(iii)   The speed of detection is dependent on the locality of the
       switching action. The speed advantage of the optical layer comes from
       its ability to detect the absence of light, and perform Ùlocal repairˆ
       by mending the connection at the point of failure. However, if the
       detection point and switching point are distinct, as may be the case in
       shared path protection (as opposed to 1+1 path protection), the desired
       and the protection switching point might be the origin of the lightpath.
       If this is the case, some form of signaling between optical equipment
       will be necessary [3]. In such situations, the response time of the
       optical layer will be dependent on the signaling mechanism deployed.
       Indeed, a deficiency of the current optical layer is its inability to
       signal failure notification, and the absence of an automated mechanism
       to perform protection switching in the general (the non 1+1) case.

7.1.1 Considerations for the Optical Layer

A consideration for the optical layer would be to provide some
coordination between the optical layer detection and a higher layer that
has a signaling mechanism, as is proposed, for example, in [3], [4],
[11]. This would increase the flexibility at the optical layer by

Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-00.txt    March, 2000



Owens/Sharma et. al.    Expires September 2000                      10

speeding up and expanding its rerouting capability and facilitate the
deployment of newer, bandwidth efficient protection options, such as
shared mesh protection.

Another consideration for the optical layer is that it cannot, in
general, detect faults in the router or switching node, and so may not
be able to provide true path protection at the LSP or ATM VC level,
since faults in the switching equipment would not be detected by the
optical layer. It is conceivable, in this case, that the reverse of the
process described above could be used. Namely, if there was
communication between the routing/switching equipment and the optical
equipment, the optical layer on learning of a router/switch failure (it
would still not detect faults at higher layers due to misconfiguration
of the switching equipment), could initiate protection at the optical
layer (by causing an deliberate loss of light condition).

Appropriate grooming of traffic on to a lightpath must be another
consideration at the optical layer that would impact traffic engineering
and network planning. The grooming algorithms, which traditionally are
geared to most efficiently pack higher layer traffic onto a lightpath,
would need to be modified to now take traffic protection or QoS needs
into account, and groom like traffic (for example, traffic that requires
a high degree of survivability) onto a small number of wavelengths that
can be protection switched.


7.2. SONET Layer

The SONET layer is the medium of choice in a large base of existing
network infrastructures. While some of the considerations here are
similar to those at the optical layer, the SONET layer currently offers
more flexibility than a pure optical layer.

Some of the advantages of the SONET layer are:
(i)     SONET protection is standardized and can operate across domains.
(ii)    The SONET layer provides both detection and automatic protection
switching.
(iii)   The SONET layer provides greater control over the granularity of
the channels that can be protection switched.


Some of the current limitations of the SONET layer are:
(i)     Inefficient use of spare capacity: SONET protection is largely
       limited to ring topologies, where spare capacity often remains idle,
       making the efficiency of bandwidth usage an issue.
(ii)    Limited topological scope: SONET protection is largely limited
       to ring topologies, which reduces the flexibility to deploy somewhat
       more complex, but potentially more efficient, mesh-based restoration
       schemes.

Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-00.txt    March, 2000



Owens/Sharma et. al.    Expires September 2000                      11

(iii)   Lack of traffic priority: As with the optical layer, the SONET
       layer also cannot distinguish between different priorities of traffic.
       For example, it is not possible in SONET to switch EF (expedited
       forwarding) and AF (assured forwarding) streams based on priority.
(iv)   Oblivious to higher layer failure: Like the optical layer, the
       SONET layer too is oblivious to higher layer errors or faults.
       Thus, SONET cannot detect ATM (or MPLS) layer errors. For
       instance, a corruption of packets at the ATM layer will not be
       detected by SONET processing.

7.2.1 Considerations for the SONET Layer

As with the optical layer, an important area of consideration at the
SONET layer, from a TE perspective, is also one of traffic grooming.
When network survivability must be taken into consideration, the
grooming of traffic may need to be done not only for maximum efficiency,
but also for maximum efficiency given that protection will be needed
(and that traffic may require different types and extents of
protection). A related issue is one of appropriately mapping the groomed
channels to optical lightpaths, while keeping protection constraints in
mind.

7.3. ATM Layer and/or MPLS Layer

In this version of this draft we will consider the ATM and MPLS layer
together, since many of the issues that are involved are common to both.

Before proceeding further, however, it is essential to clarify the use
of the term ÙMPLS  Layerˆ in this document. MPLS merely combines Layer 2
forwarding (label swapping) with Layer 3 (IP) routing, and does not,
strictly speaking, satisfy the criteria for being an independent layer
(it does not, for example, have any layer specific address). We use the
term ÙMPLS Layerˆ here to refer to the software and hardware that
together implement MPLS signaling and forwarding functionality, but do
not include the IP layer and its associated routing software in the
ÙMPLS Layer.ˆ

Some of the advantages of the ATM or MPLS layer are the following:
(i)     Capability to detect node faults: Both the ATM and MPLS layer
       provide the capability to detect node faults, which are invisible to
       lower layers. The ATM layer can do so via the F1-F5 errors and via its
       peering capability, whereas the MPLS layer may do so via an
       appropriately implemented liveness message (for example, the LDP
       Liveness message).
(ii)    Capability to detect misconfigurations: Both the ATM and MPLS
       layer can detect node or software misconfiguration by the counting of

Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-00.txt    March, 2000



Owens/Sharma et. al.    Expires September 2000                      12

       errored or corrupted packets, which may be identified by looking at the
       ATM header or MPLS label. In ATM, this may involve tracking VPI/VCI
       mismatches, while in MPLS this may be accomplished by counting TTL
       errors or label mismatches

Other advantages of the ATM layer are the existence of an in-band OAM
functionality that can help to detect path errors, and also provides
faster detection and restoration than is possible by relying on routing
protocols alone.

Some of the current limitations of the MPLS layer are:

(i)     (i)Difficulty of detecting physical link failures: The MPLS
       layer cannot detect failures without an explicit mechanism like a path
       continuity test [9] or a fast liveness message test [10]. Since MPLS
       does not allow for in-band signaling or OAM functionality of the type
       provided by ATM, an issue here is the ability to ensure that the
       liveness message can follow the exact path followed by an MPLS LSP
       between two LSRs.

(ii)    The MPLS header is to small to allow for OAM functionality of
       fault and performance management.

7.3.1 Considerations for the ATM and/or MPLS Layer

As discussed, fault detection at the MPLS layer could be by detecting
TTL errors or by counting unlabeled packets or packets with unrecognized
labels. An issue with TTL errors is that they could be the result of
either an MPLS layer or an IP layer problem, since the MPLS header
carries the IP TTL. For instance, TTL mismatches could be due to a
genuine problem with an upstream LSR or due to a router upstream of the
LSR detecting the mismatches, probably the edge router that converted
the IP packet into a labeled MPLS packet. Likewise, the persistent
receipt of unlabeled packets or packets with unknown labels might
indicate protocol problems, and necessitate a protection switch.
Thus, detection of some types of errors at the MPLS layer may require a
protection switch at the same layer, which is independent of lower
layers.



 7.4 IP Layer

The IP layer is central to the IP network infrastructure. Some of the
advantages of the IP layer for survivability include:

(i)     The ability to find optimal routes: The IP layer runs routing
       algorithms that can be tuned to propagate information that facilitates

Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-00.txt    March, 2000



Owens/Sharma et. al.    Expires September 2000                      13

       the calculation of optimal routes through the network, and perform
       constraint-based routing  [11]
(ii)    Better granularity of protection: Clearly, at the IP layer one
       obtains a fine level of granularity at which protection can be done.
       This layer allows a path selection algorithm to pick paths based on
       priority and other requirements of the traffic.
(iii)   Load balancing ability: At the IP layer, one has the maximum
       flexibility to perform load sharing by distributing traffic across
       different paths, and the flexibility to select a better path if it
       becomes available.

Some of the drawbacks of the IP layer in terms of survivability are:

(i)     A well-known drawback of the IP layer, of course, is that
       recovery operations here can be quite slow relative to the lower layers.
       Connectionless recovery, due to its dependence on IP routing, can take
       seconds to detect loss of connectivity (via routing protocols) thereby
       slowing down the recovery action.
(ii)    Another problem with the IP layer is that it too cannot detect
       physical layer faults, and fault isolation may be an issue if the intent
       is not to always rely on fault recovery based on IP rerouting.

7.4.1 Considerations for the IP Layer

One of the major considerations for the IP layer is the time to detect
faults. In IP connectionless networks, faults affecting TCP sessions for
example can take a long time to detect since the end-systems must decide
whether or not a session was lost. Thus, in order for the IP layer to
provide reliable operation and fast recovery it has to work in
conjunction with a path pinning mechanism (such as MPLS).

 7.5. Transport Layers

The Transport layers are central to the IP network infrastructure. Some
of the advantages of the Transport layers for survivability include:

(i)     The ability to provide positive acknowledgement with
       retransmission (ACK).
(ii)    The finest granularity of protection-application level: Clearly,
       at the TCP layer one obtains a fine level of granularity at which
       protection can be done. This layer allows a path selection algorithm to
       pick paths based on priority and other requirements of the application.

Some of the drawbacks of the Transport layers in terms of survivability
are:

Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-00.txt    March, 2000



Owens/Sharma et. al.    Expires September 2000                      14


(iii)   A well-known drawback of the Transport layer, of course, is that
       recovery operations here are quite slow relative to the lower layers.
       Connectionless recovery, due to its dependence on IP routing, can take
       seconds to detect loss of connectivity (via ACKS and sequence violations
       (TCP) or routing protocol (UDP)) thereby slowing down the recovery
       action.
(iv)    Another problem with the Transport layer is that it too cannot
       detect physical layer faults, and fault isolation may be an issue if the
       intent is not to always rely on fault recovery based on IP rerouting.

7.4.1 Considerations for the Transport Layer

One of the major considerations for the Transport layer is the time to
detect faults. In IP connectionless networks, faults affecting TCP
sessions for example can take a long time to detect since the end-
systems must decide whether or not a session was lost. Thus, in order
for the Transport layers to provide reliable operation and fast recovery
it has to work in conjunction with a path pinning mechanism (such as
MPLS).


7.6 Coordination between Layers

As mentioned throughout this document, the coordination of the recovery
actions across layers could dramatically improve the response times of
the network to faults, and would be valuable in designing and managing
traffic engineering mechanisms to better optimize network performance.
Even though each layers fault detection mechanisms must be independent,
as explained in the preceding sections, the ability to collapse the
independent layers in a manageable and constrained manner by
interworking failure indications across to speedup recovery operations
at higher layers.

An example of a higher layer failure that would not be detected at a
lower layer is corruption of a packet at the ATM or MPLS layer, but not
at the SONET layer. Thus, SONET processing would not be able to detect
such a fault, and this would have to be recovered at the higher layer.
By contrast, a fiber cut or link impairment is an example of a lower
layer fault that is not visible at the higher layer, so the ability to
communicate such fault information across layers may enable a lower
layer, such as the optical layer, to take advantage of finer-scale
protection capabilities of the higher layers by enabling them much
quicker than they normally would. Some major impacts that designing
coordination between the different layers is how to efficiently design
the network with high reliability and availability. Additionally, the
nature of SLAs that a provider could sign with customers will provide
another degree of design considerations.

Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-00.txt    March, 2000



Owens/Sharma et. al.    Expires September 2000                      15

8. Security Considerations

This document raises no new security issues for any of the protocols
discussed herein.

9. Acknowledgements

The authors thank Kwabena Akufo (VP Engineering, at Tellabs
Internetworking Systems Division) for bringing the authors of this draft
together and for his support  forthe writing of this draft, Dan Awduche
for initial suggestions and hints regarding the subject matter of this
draft, and Loa Andersson for highlighting the need to clarify the
meaning of the phrase ÙMPLS layerˆ as used in this document.


10. References
11. Authors∆ Addresses

Ken Owens                         Vishal Sharma
Tellabs Operations, Inc.          Tellabs Research Center
1106 Fourth Street                One Kendall Square
St. Louis, MO 63126               Bldg. 100, Ste. 121
                                  Cambridge, MA 02139-1562
Phone: 314-918-1579               Phone: 617-577-8760
Ken.Owens@tellabs.com             Vishal.Sharma@tellabs.com
                                  
Mathew Oommen                     
Williams Communications           
One Williams Center               
Tulsa, OK 74172-2067              
Phone: 918-573-3043               
Mathew.Oommen@wilcom.com          
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  
                                  



Full Copyright Statement
Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-00.txt    March, 2000



Owens/Sharma et. al.    Expires September 2000                      17


"Copyright (C) The Internet Society (March 2000). All Rights Reserved.
This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works. However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.
_______________________________
[1] Awduche, D. et al,"Framework for Internet Traffic Engineering,"
Work in Progress, Internet Draft, <draft-te-framework-00.txt>, January
2000.
[2]   Kompella, K., Rekhter, Y. et al, ÙExtensions to IS-IS/OSPF and
RSVP in support of MPL(ambda)S,ˆ Internet Draft, <draft-kompella-mpls-
optical.txt>, February 2000.
[3] Rajagopalan, B., et al, "Signaling Framework for Automatic
Protection and Restoration of Paths in Optical Networks," Work in
Progress, Internet Draft, <draft-rstb-optical-signalling-framework-
00.txt>, March 2000.
[4] Lang. J., et al, "Link Management Protocol for Optical Networks,"
Work in Progress, Internet Draft, <draft-lang-link-management-protocol-
00.txt>, March 2000.
[5] Awduche, D. O., Rekhter, Y., Drake, J., Coltun, R., ÙMulti-Protocol
Lambda Switching: Combining MPLS Traffic Engineering Control With
Optical Crossconnects,ˆ Internet Draft, <draft-awduche-mpls-te-optical-
00.txt>, October 1999.
[6] Wang, G., Fedyk, D., Sharma, V., Owens, K., et al,"Extensions to
OSPF/IS-IS for Optical Routing," Work in Progress, Internet Draft,
<draft-wang-lambda-te-routing-00.txt>, March 2000.
[7] Fan, Y., Ashwood-Smith, P., Sharma, V., Owens, K., "Extensions to
CR-LDP and RSVP for Optical Path Setup," Work in Progress, Internet
Draft, <draft-fan-mpls-lambda-signalling-00.txt>, March 2000.

Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-00.txt    March, 2000



Owens/Sharma et. al.    Expires September 2000                      16

[8] Makam, V., Sharma, V., Owens, K., Huang, C., et al "A Framework for
MPLS-based Recovery," Work in Progress, Internet Draft, <draft-makam-
mpls-recovery-frmwrk-00.txt>, March, 2000.
[9] Huang, C., Sharma, V., Makam, V., Owens, K., and Mack-Crane, B., "A
Path Protection/Restoration Mechanism for MPLS Networks," Work in
Progress, Internet Draft, <draft-chang-mpls-path-protection-00.txt>,
March 2000.
[10] Shew, S. "Fast Restoration of MPLS Label Switched Paths," Work in
Progress, Internet Draft, <draft-shew-lsp-restoration-00.txt>, October
1999.
[11] D. Awduche, "MPLS and Traffic Engineering in IP Networks," IEEE
Communications Magazine, December 1999.

Internet Draft  draft-owens-network-survivability-00.txt    March, 2000



Owens/Sharma et. al.    Expires September 2000                      18