
SNANAU Working Group                                        Bob Clouston
INTERNET DRAFT: <draft-ietf-snanau-ebnmib-01.txt>          Cisco Systems
Expiration Date: August 1998                                   Bob Moore
                                                         IBM Corporation
February 1998



                     Definitions of Managed Objects
                        for Extended Border Node
                    <draft-ietf-snanau-ebnmib-01.txt>




Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet Draft.  Internet Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its Areas, and
its Working Groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet Drafts.

Internet Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months.
Internet Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other
documents at any time.  It is not appropriate to use Internet Drafts as
reference material or to cite them other than as a "working draft" or
"work in progress."

Please check the I-D abstract listing contained in each Internet Draft
directory to learn the current status of this or any Internet Draft.
Distribution of this document is unlimited.


Copyright Notice

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1998).  All Rights Reserved.


Abstract

This memo defines a portion of the Management Information Base (MIB) for
use with network management protocols in the Internet community.  In
particular, it defines objects for monitoring and controlling network
devices with APPN (Advanced Peer-to-Peer Network) EBN (Extended Border
Node) capabilities.  This memo identifies managed objects for the EBN
architecture.

This memo does not specify a standard for the Internet community.


Table of Contents

1.0  Introduction  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   2

2.0  The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework   . . . . . . . . . . .   2


SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                   [Page 1]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998

3.0  Overview  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   3
3.1  EBN MIB Structure   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
  3.1.1  enbDir group  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   4
  3.1.2  ebnIsRscv group   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   5
  3.1.3  ebnDirConfig group  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
  3.1.4  ebnCos group  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
  3.1.5  ebnSubnetRoutingList group  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7
  3.1.6  hbn group   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   7

4.0  Definitions   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   8

5.0  Security Considerations   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20

6.0  Intellectual Property   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20

7.0  Acknowledgments   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  20

8.0  References  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21

9.0  Authors' Addresses  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  21

10.0  Full Copyright Statement   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  22



1.0  Introduction

This document is a product of the SNA NAU Services MIB Working Group.
It defines a MIB module for managing devices with Advanced Peer-to-Peer
Networking (APPN) Extended Border Node (EBN) capabilities.

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119, reference [8].


2.0  The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework

The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework consists of seven major
components.  They are:

o   RFC 1902 [1] which defines the SMI, the mechanisms used for
    describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.

o   RFC 1903 [2] defines textual conventions for SNMPv2.

o   RFC 1904 [3] defines conformance statements for SNMPv2.

o   RFC 1905 [4] defines  transport mappings for SNMPv2.

o   RFC 1906 [5] defines the protocol operations used for network access
    to managed objects.

o   RFC 1907 [6] defines the Management Information Base for SNMPv2.


SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                   [Page 2]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998

o   RFC 1908 [7] specifies coexistence between SNMP and SNMPv2.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.

This memo specifies a MIB module that is compliant to the SNMPv2 SMI.  A
semantically identical MIB conforming to the SNMPv1 SMI can be produced
through the appropriate translation.


3.0  Overview

This document identifies the proposed set of objects for monitoring the
configuration and active characteristics of devices with EBN
capabilities.  The Extended Border Node function is an APPN enhancement
for an APPN network node (NN).  It supports topology isolation, subnet
interconnection, and session establishment between subnets.

In a single APPN network, all network topology information is propagated
to all network nodes.  Directory searches can also be forwarded to all
network nodes.  As the network grows, this network traffic could become
prohibitive.  Also, in networks where different enterprises are
connected via APPN, it may be desirable to shield an enterprise from the
network traffic of another enterprise.  EBN allows customers to
partition a network into subnets to reduce or shield such network
traffic.

An EBN provides this function by blocking topology information exchange
between subnets, and controlling where directory searches are forwarded.
A subnetwork is a cluster of APPN NNs which share the same network
topology.  Subnetwork boundaries, or partitions, occur where an EBN and
an NN adjacent to it have different network identifiers (NETIDs).  They
may also occur where an EBN and adjacent NN have the same NETID but are
configured to have a subnetwork boundary.

The connection between two APPN nodes is an APPN transmission group
(TG).  A  TG at a subnet boundary is called an Intersubnetwork
Transmission Group (ISTG).

The subnet that the EBN resides in is called its native subnetwork.  The
subnet across the subnet boundary is called the non-native subnetwork,
with respect to the EBN.

A cost of the EBN function is that customers may have difficulty
determining the end-to-end route of sessions that cross subnet
boundaries, and understanding how the EBN will control directory
searches between subnets.  This MIB addresses these issues.

Another challenge facing customers is to identify subnet boundaries
formed by EBNs.  The SNANAU APPN MIB [9] identifies subnet boundaries in
the appnNnTopology group.  The SNANAU APPN MIB provides management of
APPN objects, and contains some tables which are extended by this MIB.

In this document, we describe EBN managed objects.


SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                   [Page 3]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998

The EBN terms and overall architecture are available from the
networking.raleigh.ibm.com ftp site [10].

Highlights of the management functions supported by the EBN MIB module
include the following:

o   Identifying the subnet affiliation of LUs (logical units)

o   Identifying session routes in non-native subnets, with correlation
    to the route in the native subnet provided in the SNANAU APPN MIB.

o   Identifying the COS (Class of Service) mappings between subnets.

o   Identifying the subnet routing lists

This MIB module does not support:

o   Configuration of EBN nodes.

o   Historical information about session initiation failures.

o   Peripheral Border Node (PBN) support.  PBN is an APPN function that
    only supports communication to adjacent subnetworks, and is not
    expected to be widely implemented.

o   Traps.  The APPN MIB contains a trap for Alert conditions that may
    affect EBN resources.  Although no APPN/EBN Alerts are defined today
    in [11], they could exist in the future.  The value for the
    affectedObject object contained in the alertTrap is determined by
    the implementation.  It may contain a VariablePointer from the EBN
    MIB.

3.1  EBN MIB Structure

The EBN MIB module contains the following groups of objects:

o   ebnDir - subnet information about LUs.

o   ebnIsRscv - provides the RSCV (Route Selection Control Vector) and
    COS for the subnetwork on the BIND destination side of the EBN.

o   ebnDirConfig - objects related to the EBN directory.

o   ebnCos - COS mapping between subnetworks,

o   ebnSubnetRoutingList - the customer-supplied list of where to
    forward search requests.

o   hbn - HPR (High Performance Routing) EBN intermediate session
    information.

These groups are described below in more detail.

3.1.1  enbDir group


SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                   [Page 4]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998

The ebnDir group contains the ebnDirTable, which is an extension to the
appnDirTable.  It specifies the subnet affiliation of LUs in the EBNs
directory.

3.1.2  ebnIsRscv group

The ebnIsRscv group contains the ebnIsRscvTable, which is an extension
to the appnIsInTable.  The appnIsInTable only allows for the RSCV and
COS name for one subnetwork involved in the session.  This extension
contains the RSCV and COS name for the other subnetwork.

When an EBN changes RSCVs before forwarding a BIND, appnIsInRouteInfo
contains the incoming RSCV, and ebnIsRscvDestinationRoute contains the
outgoing RSCV.

The following three cases illustrate the contents of appnIsInRouteInfo
and ebnIsRscvDestinationRoute at Extended Border Nodes.

1.  EBN connected to another EBN

       **subnet 1**|----ISTG -------|**subnet 2**
                  EBN1             EBN2
       PLU                                    SLU
       ---------------------------->|
             (1)      |------------>|
                           (2)      |----------->
                                         (3)

       PLU = Primary Logical Unit (session initiator)
       SLU = Secondary Logical Unit (session destination)

     The value of appnIsInRouteInfo object at EBN1 is the RSCV
    containing the route, represented by (1), from the PLU (or the entry
    EBN in its subnet) to EBN2.  The value of ebnIsRscvDestinationRoute
    object at EBN1  is  the RSCV,  represented  by  (2),  containing
    the one-hop route from EBN1 to EBN2. The appnIsInRouteInfo  object
    at  EBN2  also  contains  the  RSCV represented  by  (2).  The value
    of ebnIsRscvDestinationRoute in EBN2 is the RSVC containing the
    route to the SLU (or to the next subnet's  entry EBN), represented
    by (3).

2.  EBN connected to a NN or PBN

       **subnet 1**|----ISTG ------|**subnet 2**
                  EBN1           NN/PBN
       PLU
       --------------------------->|            SLU
           (1)     |----------------------------->
                                (2)

    The value of the appnIsInRouteInfo object at EBN1 is the RSCV
    containing the  route  from  the  PLU (or the entry EBN in its
    subnet) to the NN or PBN, represented by (1).  The  value  of  the
    ebnIsRscvDestinationRoute object  at  EBN1  is the RSCV containing
    the route from EBN1 to the SLU, represented by (2). Note that the

SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                   [Page 5]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998

    SLU must be in subnet 2,  because  the entry  node  is  an NN or PBN
    rather than an EBN.  The appnIsInRouteInfo object at NN/PBN contains
    the same RSCV, as represented by (2).

3.  NN or PBN connected to EBN

       **subnet 1**|----ISTG -------|**subnet 2**
                 NN/PBN            EBN1
       PLU
       -----------------------------|          SLU
                 (1)                |----------->
                                         (2)

    The value of the appnIsInRouteInfo object at  the  NN/PBN  is  the
    RSCV containing  the  route  from  the PLU to EBN1, represented by
    (1).  Note that the PLU must be in subnet 1, because the exit  node
    is  an  NN/PBN rather  than an EBN.   The appnIsInRouteInfo object
    at EBN1 contains the same RSCV.  The value of the
    ebnIsRscvDestinationRoute object at EBN1 is the RSCV containing the
    route from EBN1 to the SLU (or the next subnet's entry border node),
    as represented by (2).

The following three cases illustrate the contents of
ebnIsRscvDestinationCos at Extended Border Nodes.

1.  EBN connected to another EBN

       **subnet 1**|----ISTG -------|**subnet 2**
                 EBN1              EBN2
       PLU                                          SLU
                 COS A
       ----------------------------->|
                                           COS B
                                     |-------------->


       PLU = Primary Logical Unit (session initiator)
       SLU = Secondary Logical Unit (session destination)

    The value of ebnIsRscvDestinationCos object at EBN1 is COS A.  The
    value of ebnIsRscvDestinationCos object at EBN2 is COS B.

2.   EBN connected to a NN or PBN

       **subnet 1**|----ISTG ------|**subnet 2**
                  EBN1           NN/PBN
       PLU                                          SLU
           COS A
       ------------>|
                                  COS B
                    |--------------------------------->

    The value of the ebvIsRscvDestinationCos object at EBN1 is COS B.

3.  NN or PBN connected to EBN

SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                   [Page 6]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998

       **subnet 1**|----ISTG -------|**subnet 2**
                 NN/PBN            EBN1
       PLU                                     SLU
              COS A
       ---------------------------->|
                                          COS B
                                    |----------->

    The value of the ebnIsRscvDestinationCos object at the EBN2 is COSB.

3.1.3  ebnDirConfig group

The ebnDirConfig group consists of simple objects that provide
EBN-specific information about directory caching and the local default
value for the maximum number of subnetworks a LOCATE search procedure
may traverse.

3.1.4  ebnCos group

The ebnCos group contains the ebnCosMapTable, which specifies how COS
values are mapped between the non-native subnetwork and the native
subnetwork.

3.1.5  ebnSubnetRoutingList group

The ebnSubnetRoutingList group contains information about the
customer-supplied EBN subnetwork routing list, which indicates to which
adjacent nodes an EBN will forward LOCATE search requests. It consists
of the following tables:

1.  ebnSubnetSearchTable

    This table has an entry for each LU name that has a defined subnet
    routing list.  The LU name may identify a single LU, or it may
    contain a wildcard character that could identify a group of LUs
    (partial wildcard) or all LUs (full wildcard).  The objects in the
    table indicate whether the EBN may add dynamic entries to the subnet
    routing list, and whether the subnet routing list entries may be
    reordered for better search performance.

2.  ebnSearchTable

    This table has an entry for each control point name which is
    included in a multi-subnet search for a particular LU name.  The
    index to the table is the LU name to be searched for, and an index
    which lists the order in which the CP names are to be searched.
    Both the CP name and the LU name entries in the table allow for
    partial and full wildcards.  The CP name also allows for  special
    entries that indicate that the EBN will search itself and its own
    native subnetwork at this point in the search, or will search all
    native EBNs.

3.1.6  hbn group



SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                   [Page 7]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998

The hbn group contains information about HBN (HPR EBN) intermediate
sessions.  The hbnIsInTable is an extension to the appnIsInTable.  This
table is present for intermediate sessions when there are back-to-back
RTP (Rapid Transport Protocol) connections in an HBN.  It provides the
NCE ID (network connection endpoint identifier) and TCID (transport
connection identifier) for the second RTP connection.


4.0  Definitions

  EBN-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

   IMPORTS
           MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, Unsigned32
                       FROM SNMPv2-SMI
           MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP
                        FROM SNMPv2-CONF
           DisplayString,  TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
                       FROM SNMPv2-TC
           SnaControlPointName
                   -- Because the characters allowed in an SNA control
                   -- point name come from a restricted character set,
                   -- these names are not subject to internationalization.
                   FROM APPN-MIB
           snanauMIB
                   FROM SNA-NAU-MIB;

   ebnMIB   MODULE-IDENTITY
          LAST-UPDATED "9709011200Z"
          ORGANIZATION  "IETF SNA NAU MIB WG / AIW APPN MIBs SIG"
          CONTACT-INFO
                  "
                          Bob Clouston
                          Cisco Systems
                          7025 Kit Creek Road
                          P.O. Box 14987
                          Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA
                          Tel:    1 919 472 2333
                          E-mail: clouston@cisco.com

                          Bob Moore
                          IBM Corporation
                          BRQA/501
                          P.O. Box 12195
                          Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA
                          Tel:    1 919 254 4436
                          E-mail: remoore@us.ibm.com

                          Katie D. Lee
                          IBM Corporation
                          RHJA/501
                          P.O. Box 12195
                          Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA
                          Tel:    1 919 254 7507
                          E-mail: kdlee@vnet.ibm.com

SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                   [Page 8]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998

                  "

          DESCRIPTION
              " The MIB Module for Extended Border Node"

          ::= { snanauMIB 7 }
   -- snanauMIB ::= { mib-2 34 }

   -- *******************************************************************
   -- Textual Conventions
   -- ---------------------------------------------------------------------
   SnaNAUWildcardName   ::= TEXTUAL-CONVENTION
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Fully-qualified network NAU name. Entries take one of three
            forms:
               - Explicit entries do not contain the character '*'.
               - Partial Wildcard entries have the form 'ccc*', where
                 'ccc' represents one to sixteen characters in a legal
                 SNA NAU Name.
               - A full wildcard  consists of a single character '*'.

            Because the characters allowed in an SNA NAU name come from
            a restricted character set, these names are not subject to
            internationalization."

   SYNTAX DisplayString(SIZE(1..17))

   -- *******************************************************************
   ebnObjects              OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ebnMIB 1 }
   -- *******************************************************************

   -- *******************************************************************
   -- EBN Directory Group
   -- The ebnDirTable is an extension to the appnDirTable.  It specifies
   -- the subnet information about LUs in the EBN's directory.
   -- *******************************************************************

   ebnDir                  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ebnObjects 1 }

   ebnDirTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF EbnDirEntry
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The EBN Directory Table."
        ::= { ebnDir 1}

   ebnDirEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX EbnDirEntry
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Entry in the EBN Directory Table."


SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                   [Page 9]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998

        INDEX { ebnDirLuName }

        ::= { ebnDirTable 1 }

   EbnDirEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
           ebnDirLuName             SnaNAUWildcardName,
           ebnDirSubnetAffiliation  INTEGER     }

   ebnDirLuName OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX SnaNAUWildcardName
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Fully qualified network LU name in the domain of the serving
            network node."

        ::= { ebnDirEntry 1 }

   ebnDirSubnetAffiliation OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER { native (1),
                         nonNative (2),
                         subarea (3) }
        MAX-ACCESS read-only
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Specifies the subnetwork affiliation of the LU:
                - native(1)    : The LU is in the native APPN subnetwork.
                - nonNative(2) : The LU is in a non-native APPN subnetwork.
                - subarea(3)   : The LU is in a subarea network."

        ::= { ebnDirEntry 2 }

   -- *******************************************************************
   -- EBN Intermediate Session RSCV Group
   -- This table is an extension to the appnIsInTable. It contains the
   -- RSCV and COS used in the direction of the BIND destination.
   -- *******************************************************************

   ebnIsRscv               OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ebnObjects 2 }

   ebnIsRscvTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF EbnIsRscvEntry
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The EBN Intermediate Session RSCV table"

        ::= { ebnIsRscv 1}

   ebnIsRscvEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX EbnIsRscvEntry
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Entry in ebnIsRscvTable."

SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                  [Page 10]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998

        INDEX { ebnIsRscvCpName,
                ebnIsRscvPcid }

        ::= { ebnIsRscvTable 1 }

   EbnIsRscvEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
           ebnIsRscvCpName            SnaControlPointName,
           ebnIsRscvPcid              OCTET STRING,
           ebnIsRscvDestinationRoute  OCTET STRING,
           ebnIsRscvDestinationCos    DisplayString }

   ebnIsRscvCpName OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX SnaControlPointName
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The network-qualified control point name of the node at which
            the session and PCID originated.  For APPN and LEN nodes, this
            is either CP name of the APPN node at which the origin LU is
            located or the CP name of the NN serving the LEN node at which
            the origin LU is located.  For DLUR resources it is the name of
            the owning SSCP.  "

        ::= { ebnIsRscvEntry 1 }

   ebnIsRscvPcid OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The procedure correlation identifier (PCID) of a session.  It
            is an 8-octet value."

        ::= { ebnIsRscvEntry 2 }

   ebnIsRscvDestinationRoute OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX OCTET STRING(SIZE (0..255))
        MAX-ACCESS read-only
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The route selection control vector (RSCV x'2B') used in the
            direction towards the SLU."

        ::= { ebnIsRscvEntry 3 }

   ebnIsRscvDestinationCos OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE (1..8))
        MAX-ACCESS read-only
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The Class of Service (COS) name used in the direction towards
            the SLU."

        ::= { ebnIsRscvEntry 4 }


SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                  [Page 11]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998

   -- *******************************************************************
   -- EBN Directory Config Group
   -- The following simple objects provide information about EBN directory.
   -- *******************************************************************

   ebnDirConfig            OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ebnObjects 3 }

   ebnSearchCacheTime    OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX Unsigned32
        UNITS "minutes"
        MAX-ACCESS read-only
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The amount of time in minutes an extended border node will
            retain information about a multi-subnetwork search, once that
            that search terminates.  A value 0 indicates that the EBN has
            no defined limit, and the number of entries is bounded only by
            memory."

        ::= { ebnDirConfig 1 }

   ebnMaxSearchCache OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX Unsigned32
        MAX-ACCESS read-only
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The maximum number of multi-subnet entries to be cached.  The
            value 0 indicates that the local node has no defined limit, and
            the number of entries is bounded only by memory."

        ::= { ebnDirConfig 2 }

   ebnDefaultSubnetVisitCount  OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX Unsigned32
        MAX-ACCESS read-only
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The default maximum number of subnetworks a LOCATE search
            procedure may traverse."

   ::= { ebnDirConfig  3 }

   -- *******************************************************************
   -- EBN COS Mapping Group
   -- The ebnCosMap Table specifies how non-native COS values are mapped
   -- to a COS value which is defined in the native subnetwork.  This
   -- table defines the mappings that actually take place, as opposed to
   -- the user-defined mappings.
   -- *******************************************************************

   ebnCOS                  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ebnObjects 4 }

   ebnCosMapTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF EbnCosMapEntry
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible

SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                  [Page 12]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998

        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The EBN COS Mapping Table."

        ::= { ebnCOS 1}

   ebnCosMapEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX EbnCosMapEntry
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "An entry in the EBN COS Mapping table."

        INDEX { ebnCosMapCpName,
                ebnCosMapNonNativeCos }

        ::= { ebnCosMapTable 1 }

   EbnCosMapEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
           ebnCosMapCpName              SnaNAUWildcardName,
           ebnCosMapNonNativeCos        DisplayString,
           ebnCosMapNativeCos           DisplayString }

   ebnCosMapCpName OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX SnaNAUWildcardName
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Fully qualified network CP name for which the COS mapping
            applies."

        ::= { ebnCosMapEntry 1 }

   ebnCosMapNonNativeCos OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE(1..8))
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "An 8-byte name for the class-of-service, as known in the non-
            native subnetwork.  This variable may contain one '*'
            character, indicating a default class-of-service mapping,
            rather than a COS name.  If the non-native COS name to be
            mapped cannot be found in the cos mapping tablee, then the '*'
            is used to resolve the native/non-native COS.  Only one non-
            native COS name per CP name can have a '*'.  "

        ::= { ebnCosMapEntry 2 }

   ebnCosMapNativeCos OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX DisplayString (SIZE(1..8))
        MAX-ACCESS read-only
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
           "An 8-byte name for the class-of-service, as known in the native
           subnetwork."

SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                  [Page 13]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998


        ::= { ebnCosMapEntry 3 }

   -- *******************************************************************
   -- EBN Subnet Routing List Group
   -- The EBN Subnet Routing List indicates to which nodes an EBN forwards
   -- search request.  This group contains information pertaining to the
   -- customer-supplied Subnet Routing List.
   -- *******************************************************************

   ebnSubnetRoutingList    OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ebnObjects 5 }

   ebnSubnetSearchTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF EbnSubnetSearchEntry
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "This table contains one entry for each fully qualified LU name
            defined to have an associated subnet routing list.  Each entry
            contains general characteristics of the subnet search routing
            list for each LU name."

        ::= { ebnSubnetRoutingList 1}

   ebnSubnetSearchEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX EbnSubnetSearchEntry
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "An entry for the ebnSubnetSearchTable."

        INDEX { ebnSubnetSearchLuName }

        ::= { ebnSubnetSearchTable 1 }

   EbnSubnetSearchEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
           ebnSubnetSearchLuName   SnaNAUWildcardName,
           ebnSubnetSearchDynamics INTEGER,
           ebnSubnetSearchOrdering INTEGER   }

   ebnSubnetSearchLuName OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX SnaNAUWildcardName
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Fully qualified network LU name."

        ::= { ebnSubnetSearchEntry 1 }

   ebnSubnetSearchDynamics OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER { none(1),
                         limited (2),
                         full (3) }
        MAX-ACCESS read-only
        STATUS current

SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                  [Page 14]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998

        DESCRIPTION
            "Indicates whether an EBN may add dynamic entries to a
            subnetwork routing list.  none(1) means no entries may be added
            to the subnetwork routing list.  limited(2) means only likely
            entries may be added to the subnetwork routing list.  full(3)
            means all native extended border nodes and adjacent, non-native
            EBNs and NNs will be added to the subnetwork routing list."

        ::= { ebnSubnetSearchEntry 2 }

   ebnSubnetSearchOrdering OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX INTEGER{ priority(1),
                        defined(2) }
        MAX-ACCESS read-only
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Indicates whether an EBN may reorder a subnetwork routing list
            so that entries which are more likely to be successful are at
            the top of the subnetwork routing list and entries which are
            more likely to be unsuccessful are at the bottom of the list."

        ::= { ebnSubnetSearchEntry 3 }

   -- Border node search table

   ebnSearchTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF EbnSearchEntry
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "This table indicates where an EBN sends Locate searches for a
            given fully qualified LU name.  Each entry in the table
            indicates one control point that should be included in a multi-
            subnet search for a particular LU name.  "

        ::= { ebnSubnetRoutingList 2}

   ebnSearchEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX EbnSearchEntry
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "An entry in the ebnSearchTable."

        INDEX { ebnSearchLuName,
                ebnSearchIndex }

        ::= { ebnSearchTable 1 }

   EbnSearchEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
           ebnSearchLuName  SnaNAUWildcardName,
           ebnSearchIndex   Unsigned32,
           ebnSearchCpName  DisplayString,
           ebnSearchSNVC    Unsigned32  }


SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                  [Page 15]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998

   ebnSearchLuName OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX SnaNAUWildcardName
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Fully qualified network LU name."

        ::= { ebnSearchEntry 1 }

   ebnSearchIndex OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX Unsigned32
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Secondary index which enumerates the order in which a search
            is forwarded to CPs for a particular LU name."

        ::= { ebnSearchEntry 2 }

   ebnSearchCpName OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX DisplayString(SIZE(1..17))
        MAX-ACCESS read-only
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "This object specifies the CP(s) to which a search should be
            forwarded.  It either follows the SnaNAUWildcardName textual
            convention or takes one of the following special formats:

               '*' indicates that all native EBNs and all adjacent non-
               native EBNs and NNs may be added to the routing list
               dynamically,

               '*SELF' indicates that the EBN should search itself and its
               native subnetwork at this time during the cross-subnet
               search,

               '*EBNS' indicates all native EBNs."

        ::= { ebnSearchEntry 3 }

   ebnSearchSNVC OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX Unsigned32
        MAX-ACCESS read-only
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The maximum number of subnets a Locate search procedure may
            traverse.  "

        ::= { ebnSearchEntry 4 }

   -- *******************************************************************
   -- HPR Extended Border Node Intermediate Session  Group
   -- The hbnIsInTable is an extension to the appnIsInTable.
   -- In the case where there are back-to-back RTP connections
   -- in an HBN, this table is necessary to provide the NceId

SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                  [Page 16]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998

   -- and Tcid for the second RTP connection.
   -- *******************************************************************

   hbn                     OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ebnObjects 6 }

   hbnIsInTable OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF HbnIsInEntry
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The HBN Intermediate Session table."

        ::= { hbn 1}

   hbnIsInEntry OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX HbnIsInEntry
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Entry of the HBN Intermediate Session Table."

        INDEX { hbnIsInFqCpName,
                hbnIsInPcid }

   ::= { hbnIsInTable 1 }

   HbnIsInEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
           hbnIsInFqCpName    SnaControlPointName,
           hbnIsInPcid        OCTET STRING,
           hbnIsInRtpNceId    OCTET STRING,
           hbnIsInRtpTcid     OCTET STRING }

   hbnIsInFqCpName OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX SnaControlPointName
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The network-qualified control point name of the node at which
            the session and PCID originated.  For APPN and LEN nodes, this
            is either the CP name of the APPN node at which the origin LU
            is located or the CP name of the NN serving the LEN node at
            which the origin LU is located.  "

        ::= { hbnIsInEntry 1 }

   hbnIsInPcid OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE(8))
        MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The procedure correlation identifier (PCID) of a session.  It
            is an 8-octet value."

        ::= { hbnIsInEntry 2 }


SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                  [Page 17]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998

   hbnIsInRtpNceId OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..8))
        MAX-ACCESS read-only
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The HPR local Network Connection Endpoint of the session in
            the direction of the SLU.  When this object exists, the
            appnIsInRtpNceId object contains the HPR local Network
            Connection Endpoint of the session in the direction of the
            PLU."

        ::= { hbnIsInEntry 3 }

   hbnIsInRtpTcid OBJECT-TYPE
        SYNTAX OCTET STRING (SIZE(8))
        MAX-ACCESS read-only
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The RTP connection local TCID of the session in the direction
            of the SLU.  When this object exists, the appnIsInRtpTcid
            object contains the RTP connection local TCID of the session in
            the direction of the PLU."

        ::= { hbnIsInEntry 4 }

   -- *******************************************************************
   -- Conformance Statement
   -- *******************************************************************
   ebnConformance          OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ebnMIB 2 }

   ebnCompliances          OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ebnConformance 1 }
   ebnGroups               OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { ebnConformance 2 }

   -- Compliance statements
   ebnCompliance     MODULE-COMPLIANCE
     STATUS current
     DESCRIPTION
         "The compliance statement for the SNMPv2 entites which implement
         the ebnMIB."

     MODULE   -- this module

     --  Unconditionally mandatory groups
         MANDATORY-GROUPS {
                   ebnDirectoryGroup,
                   ebnIsRscvGroup,
                   ebnDirectoryConfigGroup,
                   ebnCosMappingGroup,
                   ebnSubnetRoutingListGroup }

     -- Conditionally mandatory groups
        GROUP hbnIsInGroup
        DESCRIPTION
            "The hbnIsInGroup is mandatory only for HPR extended border
            nodes."

SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                  [Page 18]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998


        ::= {ebnCompliances 1}

   -- Group definitions
   ebnDirectoryGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS { ebnDirSubnetAffiliation }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The EBN-related directory objects."

        ::= { ebnGroups 1 }


   ebnIsRscvGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS { ebnIsRscvDestinationRoute,
                  ebnIsRscvDestinationCos }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "Two objects representing RSCV and class of service information
            saved by an EBN."

        ::= { ebnGroups 2 }

   ebnDirectoryConfigGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS { ebnSearchCacheTime,
                  ebnMaxSearchCache,
                  ebnDefaultSubnetVisitCount }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The EBN Directory Configuration Group."

        ::= { ebnGroups 3 }

   ebnCosMappingGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS {  ebnCosMapNativeCos }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The EBN COS Mapping Group."

        ::= { ebnGroups 4 }

   ebnSubnetRoutingListGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS { ebnSubnetSearchDynamics,
                  ebnSubnetSearchOrdering,
                  ebnSearchCpName,
                   ebnSearchSNVC }
        STATUS current
        DESCRIPTION
            "The Subnet Routing List Group."

        ::= { ebnGroups 5 }

   hbnIsInGroup OBJECT-GROUP
        OBJECTS { hbnIsInRtpNceId, hbnIsInRtpTcid }
        STATUS current

SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                  [Page 19]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998

        DESCRIPTION
            "The HBN-related Intermediate Session Objects."

        ::= { ebnGroups 6 }

  END


5.0  Security Considerations

Certain management information defined in this MIB may be considered
sensitive in some network environments.  Therefore, authentication of
received SNMP requests and controlled access to management information
SHOULD be employed in such environments.  The method for this
authentication is a function of the SNMP Administrative Framework, and
has not been expanded by this MIB.

None of the read-only objects in the EBN MIB reports a password, user
data, or anything else that is particularly sensitive.  Some enterprises
view their network configuration itself, as well as information about
network usage and performance, as corporate assets; such enterprises may
wish to restrict SNMP access to most of the objects in the MIB.

There are no read-write objects in the EBN MIB.


6.0  Intellectual Property

The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
intellectual property or other rights that might be claimed to pertain
to the implementation or use of the technology described in this
document or the extent to which any license under such rights might or
might not be available; neither does it represent that it has made any
effort to identify any such rights.  Information on the IETF's
procedures with respect to rights in standards-track and
standards-related documentation can be found in BCP-11.  Copies of
claims of rights made available for publication and any assurances of
licenses to be made available, or the result of an attempt made to
obtain a general license or permission for the use of such proprietary
rights by implementers or users of this specification can be obtained
from the IETF Secretariat.

The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary rights
which may cover technology that may be required to practice this
standard.  Please address the information to the IETF Executive
Director.


7.0  Acknowledgments

This MIB module is the product of the IETF SNA NAU MIB WG and the AIW
APPN/HPR MIBs SIG.  Thanks to Dave Billing, Cisco Systems; Katie Lee,
IBM Corporation; and Marcia Peters, IBM Corporation, for their
contributions and review.

SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                  [Page 20]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998

8.0  References

[1]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser S., "Structure
     of Management Information for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1902, January 1996.

[2]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Textual
     Conventions for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1903, January 1996.

[3]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S.,
     "Conformance Statements for Version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1904, January 1996.

[4]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Protocol
     Operations for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1905, January 1996.

[5]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Transport
     Mappings for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1906, January 1996.

[6]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S., "Management
     Information Base for Version 2 of the Simple Network Management
     Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1907, January 1996.

[7]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and Waldbusser, S.,
     "Coexistence between Version 1 and Version 2 of the
     Internet-standard Network Management Framework", RFC 1908, January
     1996.

[8]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
     Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

[9]  Clouston, B., and B. Moore, "Definition of Managed Objects for APPN
     using SMIv2", RFC 2155, June 1997.

[10] IBM, APPN Extended Border Node Architecture Reference Version 1.0,
     available only via anonymous FTP at networking.raleigh.ibm.com, as
     /pub/standards/aiw/appn/bordernode/ebn4.psbin.

[11] IBM, SNA/MS Formats, GC31-8302-00


9.0  Authors' Addresses











SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                  [Page 21]

Internet Draft                  EBN MIB                    February 1998


  Bob Clouston
  Cisco Systems
  7025 Kit Creek Road
  P.O. Box 14987
  Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA

  Phone: +1-919-472-2333
  E-mail: clouston@cisco.com


  Robert Moore
  Dept. BRQA/Bldg. 501/G114
  IBM Corporation
  P.O.Box 12195
  3039 Cornwallis
  Research Triangle Park, NC 27709, USA
  Phone: +1-919-254-7507
  E-mail: remoore@us.ibm.com


10.0  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (1997).  All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this document itself
may not be modified in any way, such as by removing the copyright notice
or references to the Internet Society or other Internet organizations,
except as needed for the purpose of developing Internet standards in
which case the procedures for copyrights defined in the Internet
Standards process must be followed, or as required to translate it into
languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS
IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK
FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT
INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.









SNA NAU MIB WG            Expires August 1998                  [Page 22]

