
Network Working Group                                        Keith Moore
Internet-Draft                                   University of Tennessee
Expires: 19 January 1997                                    19 July 1996


                  Requirements for IETF Mailing Lists

                    draft-moore-maillist-req-00.txt

1. Status of this Memo

     This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

     Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at
any time.  It is not appropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
material or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

     To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check the
``1id-abstracts.txt'' listing contained in the Internet-Drafts Shadow
Directories on ftp.is.co.za (Africa), nic.nordu.net (Europe),
munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim), ds.internic.net (US East Coast), or
ftp.isi.edu (US West Coast).

     Following review by interested parties, the author intends to
submit this document to the IESG for consideration as a Best Current
Practice.  Comments should be sent to moore@cs.utk.edu.

2. Abstract

     This document describes requirements for all IETF official mailing
lists, including (but not limited to) mailing lists used for working
group discussion.

3. Introduction

     There is a wide variety of practice in the administration and
processing of mailing lists, and there are several existing software
packages which enforce or encourage different practices.  In the
interest of uniformity of user interfaces across IETF discussions, and
of robust handling of mailing list anomalies, this memo outlines
practices which are required for all IETF mailing lists.






Moore                    Expires 19 January 1997                [Page 1]





IETF Mailing List Requirements                              19 July 1996


4. Administration

     All IETF mailing lists shall have (at least) two addresses: one for
submissions to be redistributed to the list membership, and another for
administrative requests (e.g. subscription requests, deletions, address
changes).  A mailing list MAY have other addresses, for instance, to
access a mail-based robot which provides back issues of the list.

     If the address used for subscriptions is of the form
<listname@y.z>, the address used for administrative requests shall be
<listname-REQUEST@y.z>.  The address <Postmaster@y.z> MUST also be
valid, though this address should not normally be used for routine
administrative requests.

     Administrative requests shall be handled within two working days.
For the purpose of this requirement, days on which IETF conferences are
held shall not be considered working days.  All administrative requests
shall be acknowledged by sending an electronic mail "reply" to the
requestor.

     Mail sent to the Postmaster of the list server MUST also be
answered within two working days.

     Every IETF mailing list shall have a sentient human being as list
maintainer, who is directly responsible for maintaining the list.  The
list maintainer shall be responsible for routine administrative
requests, deleting recipients for whom mail is persistently
undeliverable, and thwarting mail loops due to broken subscriber
software.

     Automatic list server software MAY be used to handle routine
administrative requests for IETF lists, and such software MAY be used to
handle mail sent to the -REQUEST address.  However, if such software is
used, it MUST be able to recognize when it does not understand a
request, and tell the requestor how to send mail to the human being who
is responsible for maintaining the list.  Requests sent to that human
being must be answered within two working days.

     A recipient SHOULD be removed by the list maintainer if mail for
that recipient is returned as undeliverable on more than three separate
days within a thirty-day period.  If a recipient is removed for this
reason, the list maintainer MUST attempt to send a message to that
recipient notifying him/her that he/she has been deleted from the list.

+    A recipient MUST be removed by the list maintainer, if that
     recipient's email software automatically returns any kind of
     response message (be it a nondelivery report, delivery report,
     delay notification, receipt notification, vacation notification,



Moore                    Expires 19 January 1997                [Page 2]





IETF Mailing List Requirements                              19 July 1996


     change-of-address notification, or any other kind of automatic
     response) to the entire mailing list; or if the recipient's mailer
     sends an automatic response messages to the addresses on the To or
     Cc header field of a message sent to the list; or in general if the
     recipient's mailer causes forwarding loops or repeatedly spews
     messages to the list.

     When the list administrator receives a message which is obviously
intended as a submission to the list, and which was sent to either the
-REQUEST address or to the SMTP MAIL FROM address used to redistribute
messages (see section 6), it SHOULD NOT be forwarded to the list
membership.  Instead, it should be returned to the originator with a
instructions to send that message to the correct list submission
address.

5. Header munging

     In general, a list is expected to preserve all header fields in the
input message when redistributing that message to the list membership.
Specific exceptions and/or clarifications appear below.

     The list MAY, when redistributing a message to the list membership,
add a Reply-To header field to a message that lacks one, in an attempt
to cause replies to go back to the list.  This practice is neither
recommended nor forbidden.  However, the list MUST NOT remove or alter a
Reply-To header supplied by the originator of the message.

     The list SHOULD remove any of the following header fields from any
message redistributed to a list: Content-Length (nonstandard,
misleading), Errors-To (violates RFC 821 and RFC 1123), Precedence
(nonstandard, use varies widely and causes some mail software to break),
Return-Path (should not be in a message except at final delivery),
Return-Receipt-To (nonstandard, layering violation), X-Confirm-Reading-
To, or any other header which is intended to cause the recipient's mail
system to send a receipt notification or delivery report.

     The list MUST NOT add an Errors-To or Return-Receipt-To header
field to a message redistributed to the list membership.  The list
SHOULD NOT add a Precedence header field to a message redistributed to
the list membership.

     The list MUST NOT alter the To, Cc, From, Reply-To, Subject,
Message-Id, In-Reply-To, References, or Date fields of a message
redistributed to the list membership.

     The list MUST NOT alter or delete Received fields of messages
redistributed to the list membership.




Moore                    Expires 19 January 1997                [Page 3]





IETF Mailing List Requirements                              19 July 1996


     The list MUST NOT delete a header field without specific
instructions to do so.  (In other words, a list MUST NOT delete a header
field simply because it does not recognize it.)

6. Envelope munging

     The list MUST set the SMTP MAIL FROM address to point to the
address of the list maintainer (or a robot acting on his or her behalf)
on all messages redistributed to the list membership.  This address MUST
NOT be the same as the list submission address (even if the software
handling the list thinks it can distinguish list submissions from
nondelivery reports and other automatic responses).

     For a list submission address is <listname@y.z>, a suggested MAIL
FROM address is <OWNER-listname@y.z>.

7. Responsibilities of a list member

     List members are expected to send administrative requests to the
-REQUEST address and not to the list submission address.

     List members are expected to send submissions to the list
submission address.  List members SHOULD NOT send submissions to any of:

+    the -REQUEST address

+    the address in the Return-Path header field

+    the address in the Sender header field (if any)

+    the so-called "From " address (on systems that use the UNIX "mbox"
     format), or

+    the SMTP envelope return address.

     List members are expected to keep their mail software in working
order such that it does not do harm to the list.  Members may be removed
from the list if their mail software causes harm to the list.

     There are other requirements on the content of messages sent to an
IETF list, e.g. the sender should be civil to other list members, IETF
lists should not be used for advertising, etc.  Such requirements exist
but are not within the scope of this memo.

8. Security Considerations

     Security Considerations are not addressed in this memo.




Moore                    Expires 19 January 1997                [Page 4]





IETF Mailing List Requirements                              19 July 1996


9. Author's Address

     Keith Moore <moore@cs.utk.edu>
















































Moore                    Expires 19 January 1997                [Page 5]


