Internet Engineering Task Force                                   AVT WG
INTERNET-DRAFT                                              Ladan Gharai
draft-ietf-avt-uncomp-video-01.txt                         Colin Perkins
                                                                 USC/ISI
                                                         3 November 2002
                                                       Expires: May 2003


                RTP Payload Format for Uncompressed Video



Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.


                                Abstract


     This memo specifies a packetization scheme for encapsulating
     uncompressed video into a payload format for the Real-time
     Transport Protocol, RTP. It supports a range of standard- and
     high-definition video formats, including common television
     formats such as ITU BT.601, SMPTE 274M and SMPTE 296M.  The
     format is designed to be extensible as new video formats are
     developed.





Gharai/Perkins                                                  [Page 1]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2003              November 2002


1.  Introduction

This memo defines a scheme to packetize uncompressed, studio-quality,
video streams for transport using RTP [RTP]. It supports a range of
standard and high definition video formats, including ITU-R BT.601
[601], SMPTE 274M [274] and SMPTE 296M [296].

Formats for uncompressed standard definition television are defined by
ITU Recommendation BT.601 [601] along with bit-serial and parallel
interfaces in Recommendation BT.656 [656]. These formats allow both 625
line and 525 line operation, with 720 samples per digital active line,
4:2:2 color sub-sampling, and 8- or 10-bit digital representation.

The representation of uncompressed high definition television is
specified in SMPTE standards 274M [274] and 296M [296].  SMPTE 274M
defines a family of scanning systems with an image format of 1920x1080
pixels with progressive and interlaced scanning, while SMPTE 296M
standard defines systems with an image size of 1280x720 pixels and only
progressive scanning. In progressive scanning, scan lines are displayed
in sequence from top to bottom of a full frame. In interlaced scanning,
a frame is divided into its odd and even scan lines (called a field) and
the two fields are displayed in succession.

SMPTE 274M and 296M define images with aspect ratios of 16:9, and define
the digital representation for RGB and YCbCr components. In the case of
YCbCr components, the Cb and Cr components are horizontally sub-sampled
by a factor of two (4:2:2 color encoding).

Although these formats differ in their details, they are structurally
very similar. This memo specifies a payload format to encapsulate these,
and other similar, video formats for transport within RTP.


2.  Conventions Used in this Document

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED",  "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
document are to be interpreted as described in RFC 2119[2119].


3.  Applicability Statement

This RTP payload format is designed to transport uncompressed, studio
quality, video streams. Such content can be very high bandwidth and, by
definition, is not congestion controlled. The intended use of this
format is within a production facility or on a suitably connected
private network that is specifically engineered to support this content.
This format is NOT RECOMMENDED for use on public network links, unless



Gharai/Perkins                                                  [Page 2]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2003              November 2002


those links support appropriate quality of service guarantees. See also
Section 10 "Security Considerations".


4.  Payload Design

Each scan line of digital video is packetized into one or more
(depending on the current MTU) RTP packets. A single RTP packet MAY also
contain data for more than one scan line. Only the active samples are
included in the RTP payload, inactive samples and the contents of
horizontal and vertical blanking SHOULD NOT be transported. Scan line
numbers are included in the RTP payload header, along with a field
identifier for interlaced video.


     For SMPTE 296M format video, valid scan line numbers are from 26
     through 745, inclusive. For progressive scan SMPTE 274M format
     video, valid scan lines are from scan line 42 through 1121
     inclusive. For interlaced scan, valid scan line numbers for field
     one (F=0) are from 21 to 560 and valid scan line numbers for the
     second field (F=1) are from 584 to 1123. For ITU-R BT.601 format
     video, the blanking intervals defined in BT.656 are used: for 625
     line video, lines 24 to 310 of field one (F=0) and 337 to 623 of
     the second field (F=1) are valid; for 525 line video, lines 21 to
     263 of the first field, and 284 to 525 of the second field are
     valid.  Other formats (e.g. [372]) may define different ranges of
     active lines.


It is desirable for the video to be both octet aligned when packetized,
and to adhere to the principles of application level framing [ALF] by
ensuring that the samples relating to a single pixel are not fragmented
across two packets.

Samples may be transfered as 8, 10, 12 or 16 bit values. For 10 bit and
12 bit payloads, care must be taken to pack an appropriate number of
samples per packet, such that the payload is also octet aligned. For RGB
video, it is desirable that the samples corresponding to a single pixel
are not fragmented across packets. Similarly, for YCrCb video, it is
desirable that luminance and chrominance values are not fragmented
across packets.

For example, in YCrCb video with 4:2:0 color subsampling, each group of
4 pixels is represented by 6 values, Y1 Y2 Y3 Y4 Cr Cb. These should be
packetized such that these values are not fragmented across a packet
boundary. With 10 bit words this is a 60 bit value which is not octet
aligned. To be both octet aligned, and appropriately framed, pixels must
be framed in 2 groups of 4, thereby becoming octet aligned on a 15 octet



Gharai/Perkins                                                  [Page 3]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2003              November 2002


boundary. This length is referred to as the pixel group ("pgroup"), and
it is conveyed in the SDP parameters. Tables 1 to 4 display the pgroup
values for a range of color samplings and word lengths.


                                       10 bit words
               Color            --------------------------------
            Subsampling Pixels  #words  octet alignment  pgroup
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |monochrome |  4   | | 4x10 |    40/8 = 5   |   5   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |   4:2:0   |  4   | | 6x10 |  2x60/8 = 15  |  15   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |   4:2:2   |  2   | | 4x10 |    40/8 = 5   |   5   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |   4:4:4   |  1   | | 3x10 |  4x30/8 = 15  |  15   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |  4:4:4:4  |  1   | | 4x10 |    40/8 = 5   |   5   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
     Table 1: pgroup values for 10 bit sampling



                                        8 bit words
               Color            --------------------------------
            Subsampling Pixels  #words  octet alignment  pgroup
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |monochrome |  1   | | 1x8  |    8/8 = 1    |   1   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |   4:2:0   |  4   | | 6x8  |  6x8/8 = 6    |   6   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |   4:2:2   |  2   | | 4x8  |  4x8/8 = 8    |   4   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |   4:4:4   |  1   | | 3x8  |  3x8/8 = 3    |   3   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |  4:4:4:4  |  1   | | 4x8  |  4x8/8 = 4    |   4   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
     Table 2: pgroup values for 8 bit sampling













Gharai/Perkins                                                  [Page 4]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2003              November 2002


                                       12 bit words
               Color            --------------------------------
            Subsampling Pixels  #words  octet alignment  pgroup
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |monochrome |  2   | | 2x12 |  2x12/8 = 3   |   3   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |   4:2:0   |  4   | | 6x12 |    72/8 = 9   |   9   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |   4:2:2   |  2   | | 4x12 |    48/8 = 6   |   6   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |   4:4:4   |  2   | | 6x12 |  2x36/8 = 9   |   9   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |  4:4:4:4  |  1   | | 4x12 |    48/8 = 6   |   6   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
          Table 3: pgroup values for 12 bit sampling



                                        16 bit words
               Color            --------------------------------
            Subsampling Pixels  #words  octet alignment  pgroup
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |monochrome |  1   | | 1x16 |   16/8 = 2    |   2   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |   4:2:0   |  4   | | 6x16 | 6x16/8 = 12   |  12   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |   4:2:2   |  2   | | 4x16 | 4x16/8 = 8    |   8   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |   4:4:4   |  1   | | 3x16 | 3x16/8 = 6    |   6   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
           |  4:4:4:4  |  1   | | 4x16 | 4x16/8 = 8    |   8   |
           +-----------+------+ +------+---------------+-------+
          Table 4: pgroup values for 16 bit sampling


When packetizing digital active line content, video data MUST NOT be
fragmented within a pgroup.

Video content is almost always associated with additional information
such as audio tracks, time code, etc. In professional digital video
applications this data is commonly embedde d in non-video portions of
the data stream (horizontal and vertical blanking periods) so that
precise and robust synchronization is maintained. This payload format
envisions that applications requiring such synchronized ancillary data
should deliver it in separate RTP sessions which operate concurrently
with the video session. The normal RTP mechanisms SHOULD be used to
synchronize the media.




Gharai/Perkins                                                  [Page 5]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2003              November 2002


5.  RTP Packetization

The standard RTP header is followed by an 8 octet payload header for
each line (or partial line) of video included. One or more lines, or
partial lines, of payload data follow. For example, if two lines of
video are encapsulated, the payload format will be as shown in Figure 1.


       0                   1                   2                   3
       0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      | V |P|X|   CC  |M|    PT       |           Sequence No         |
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |                           Time Stamp                          |
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |                             SSRC                              |
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |    Scan Line No               |        Scan Offset            |
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |         Length                |F|C|         Z                 |
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |    Scan Line No               |        Scan Offset            |
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      |         Length                |F|C|         Z                 |
      +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
      .                                                               .
      .                 Two (partial) lines of video data             .
      .                                                               .
      +---------------------------------------------------------------+
     Figure 1: RTP Payload Format showing two (partial) lines of video



5.1.  The RTP Header

The fields of the fixed RTP header have their usual meaning, with the
following additional notes:


Payload Type (PT): 7 bits

     A dynamically allocated payload type field which designates the
     payload as uncompressed video.


Timestamp: 32 bits





Gharai/Perkins                                                  [Page 6]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2003              November 2002


     A 90 kHz timestamp MUST be used to denote the sampling instant of
     the video frame to which the RTP packet belongs. Packets MUST NOT
     include data from multiple frames, and all packets belonging to the
     same frame MUST have the same timestamp.

     TBD: Consider whether the two fields of interlaced video MAY have
     distinct timestamps. In some ways this is more "natural" for true
     interlaced video and distinguishes it from "progressive segmented
     frame" (PsF) mode in which the two fields really do refer to the
     same time instant.


Marker bit (M): 1 bit

     The Marker bit denotes the end of a video frame, and MUST be set to
     1 for the last packet of the video frame. It MUST be set to 0 for
     other packets.


5.2.  Payload Header


Scan Line No : 16 bits

     Scan line number of encapsulated data in network byte order.
     Successive RTP packets MAY contains parts of the same scan line
     (with an incremented RTP sequence number, but the same timestamp),
     if it is necessary to fragment a line.


Scan Offset : 16 bits

     Scan offset of the first sample in the payload data. If YCrCb
     format data is being transported, this is the offset of the co-
     sited luminance sample and if RGB format data is being transported
     it is the offset of the red sample. The value is in network byte
     order, and the offset has a value of zero if the first sample in
     the payload corresponds to the start of the line.


Length: 16 bits

     Number of octets of data included. This MUST be a multiple of the
     pgroup value.


Field Identification (F): 1 bit




Gharai/Perkins                                                  [Page 7]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2003              November 2002


     Identifies which field the scan line belongs to, for interlaced
     data. F=0 identifies the the first field and F=1 the second field.
     For progressive scan data (e.g. SMPTE 296M format video), F MUST
     always be set to zero.


Continuation (more lines) bit (C): 1 bit

     Determines if an additional payload header follows the current
     header in the RTP packet. Set to 1 if an additional header follows,
     implying that the RTP packet is carrying data for more than one
     scan line. Set to 0 otherwise.


Reserved (Z): 14 bits

     These bits SHOULD be set to zero by the sender and MUST be ignored
     by receivers.


5.3.  Payload Data

Depending on the video format, each RTP packet can include either a
single complete scan line, a single fragment of a scan line, or one (or
more) complete scan lines plus a fragment of a scan line.  Every scan
line or scan line fragment MUST begin at an octet boundary in the
payload data.

If the video is in YUV format, the packing of samples into the payload
depends on the color sub-sampling used. For RGB format video, there is a
single packing scheme.

For RGB format video, samples are packed in order Red-Green-Blue.  All
samples are the same bit size, which may be 8, 10, 12, or 16 bits.  If 8
bit samples are used, the pgroup is 3 octets. If 10 bit samples are
used, samples from adjacent pixels are packed with no padding, and the
pgroup is 15 octets (4 pixels).  Refer to Tables 1 thru 4.

For RGBA format video, samples are packed in order Red-Green-Blue-Alpha.
All samples are the same bit size, which may be 8, 10, 12, or 16 bits.
Refer to Tables 1 thru 4.

For YUV 4:4:4 format video, samples are packed in order Cb-Y-Cr. Each
sample is either an 8 bit or a 10 bit value.  If 8 bit samples are used,
the pgroup is 3 octets. If 10 bit samples are used, samples from
adjacent pixels are packed with no padding, and the pgroup is 15 octets
(4 pixels).




Gharai/Perkins                                                  [Page 8]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2003              November 2002


For YUV 4:2:2 format video, the Cb and Cr components are horizontally
sub-sampled by a factor of two (each Cb and Cr samples corresponds to
two Y components). Samples are packed in order Cb0-Y0-Cr0-Y1. If 8 bit
samples are used, the pgroup is 4 octets. If 10 bit samples are used,
the pgroup is 5 octets.

(tbd: YUV 4:2:0 format video)

It is possible that the scan line length is not evenly divisible by the
number of pixels in a pgroup, so the final pixel data of a scan line
does not align to either an octet or pgroup boundary. Nonetheless the
payload MUST contain a whole number of pgroups; the sender MUST fill the
remaining bits of the final pgroup with zero and the receiver MUST
ignore the fill data. (In effect, the trailing edge of the image is
black-filled to a pgroup boundary.)


6.  Required Parameters

(tbd)


     Parameters are: color mode (RGB/YUV), color sub-sampling
     (4:4:4, 4:2:2, 4:2:0), lines per frame, pixels per line, bits
     per sample and scan mode (progressive or interlaced). Propose
     to map these to SDP a=fmtp: values.

     Optional parameters are: colorimetry (primaries, whitepoint,
     reference medium), transfer function (log, gamma, toe
     treatment, black offset), image orientation, capture temporal
     mode (field integration, frame integration, spot scan,
     pushbroom scan). [286], [22028]



7.  RTCP Considerations

RFC1889 recommends transmission of RTCP packets every 5 seconds or at a
reduced minimum in seconds of 360 divided by the session bandwidth in
kilobits/seconds. At the 1.485 Gbps (uncompressed HDTV rate) the reduced
minimum interval computes to 0.2ms or 4028 packets per second.

It should be noted that the sender's octet count in SR packets wraps
around in 23 seconds, and that the cumulative  number of packets lost
wraps around in 93 seconds. This means these two fields cannot
accurately represent octet count and number of packets lost since the
beginning of transmission, as defined in RFC 1889. Therefore for network
monitoring purposes other means of keeping track of these variables



Gharai/Perkins                                                  [Page 9]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2003              November 2002


SHOULD be used.


8.  IANA Considerations

This memo defines a new RTP payload format and associated MIME type.
The MIME registration form is enclosed below:

     MIME media type name: video

     MIME subtype name: raw

     Required parameters: rate

     Optional parameters: (tbd)

     Encoding considerations: Uncompressed video can be transmitted with
       RTP as specified in RFC XXXX

     Security considerations: See section 9 of RFC XXXX

     Interoperability considerations: NONE

     Published specification: RFC XXXX

     Applications which use this media type: Video communication.

     Additional information: None

     Magic number(s): None

     File extension(s): None

     Macintosh File Type Code(s): None

     Person & email address to contact for further information:
        Ladan Gharai <ladan@isi.edu>
        IETF AVT working group.

     Intended usage: COMMON

     Author/Change controller:
           Ladan Gharai <ladan@isi.edu>








Gharai/Perkins                                                 [Page 10]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2003              November 2002


9.  Mapping to SDP Parameters

Parameters are mapped to SDP [SDP] as follows:

        m=video 30000 RTP/AVP 111
        a=rtpmap:111 raw/90000
        a=fmtp:111 (tbd)

In this example, a dynamic payload type 111 is used for uncompressed
video.  The RTP sampling clock is 90kHz.


10.  Security Considerations

RTP packets using the payload format defined in this specification are
subject to the security considerations discussed in the RTP
specification, and any appropriate RTP profile. This implies that
confidentiality of the media streams is achieved by encryption.

This payload type does not exhibit any significant non-uniformity in the
receiver side computational complexity for packet processing to cause a
potential denial-of-service threat.

It is important to be note that uncompressed video can have immense
bandwidth requirements (270 Mbps for standard definition video, and
approximately 1 Gbps for high definition video), and is not congestion
controlled. This is sufficient to cause potential for denial-of-service
if transmitted onto most currently available Internet paths. Use of the
payload format defined here MUST be narrowly limited to suitably
connected private networks, or to networks where quality of service
guarantees are available. This potential threat is common to all high
rate applications without congestion control.


11.  Relation to RFC 2431

In comparison with RFC 2431 this memo specifies support for a wider
variety of uncompressed video, in terms of frame size, color subsampling
and sample sizes. While [BT656] can transport up to 4096 scan lines and
2048 pixels per line, our payload type  can support up to 64k scan lines
and pixels per line. Also, RFC 2431 only address 4:2:2 YUV data, while
this memo covers YUV and RGB and most common color subsampling schemes.
Given the variety of video types that we cover, this memo also assumes
out-of-band signaling for sample size and data types (RFC 2431 uses in
band signaling).






Gharai/Perkins                                                 [Page 11]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2003              November 2002


12.  Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2002). All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it or
assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind,
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are included
on all such copies and derivative works.

However, this document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by
removing the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or
other Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of
developing Internet standards in which case the procedures for
copyrights defined in the Internet Standards process must be followed,
or as required to translate it into languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an "AS
IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING TASK
FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT
INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE."


13.  Acknowledgements

The authors are grateful to Philippe Gentric and Chuck Harrison for
their feedback.


14.  Authors' Addresses

Ladan Gharai <ladan@isi.edu>
Colin Perkins <csp@csperkins.org>

USC Information Sciences Institute
3811 N. Fairfax Drive, #200
Arlington, VA 22203
USA







Gharai/Perkins                                                 [Page 12]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2003              November 2002


Bibliography


[274]   Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers,
        1920x1080 Scanning and Analog and Parallel Digital Interfaces
        for Multiple Picture Rates, SMPTE 274M-1998.

[268]   Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers,
        File Format for Digital Moving Picture Exchange (DPX),
        SMPTE 268M-1994. (Currently under revision.)

[296]   Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers,
        1280x720 Scanning, Analog and Digital Representation and Analog
        Interfaces, SMPTE 296M-1998.

[372]   Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers,
        Dual Link 292M Interface for 1920 x 1080 Picture Raster,
        SMPTE 372M-2002.


[2119]  S. Bradner, "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
        Levels", RFC 2119.

[ALF]   Clark, D. D., and Tennenhouse, D. L., "Architectural
        Considerations for a New Generation of Protocols", In
        Proceedings of SIGCOMM '90 (Philadelphia, PA, Sept. 1990), ACM.

[SDP]   M. Handley and V. Jacobson, "SDP: Session Description Protocol",
        RFC 2327, April 1998.

[BT656] D. Tynan, "RTP Payload Format for BT.656 Video Encoding",
        Internet Engineering Task Force, RFC 2431, October 1998.

[RTP]   H. Schulzrinne, S. Casner, R. Frederick and V. Jacobson,
        "RTP: A Transport Protocol for Real-Time Applications",
        Internet Engineering Task Force, RFC 1889, January 1996.

[292RTP] L. Gharai et al., "RTP Payload Format for SMPTE 292M Video",
        Internet Draft, draft-ietf-avt-smpte292-video-07.txt,
        Work in progress.


[601]   International Telecommunication Union, "Studio encoding
        parameters of digital television for standard 4:3 and wide
        screen 16:9 aspect ratios", Recommendation BT.601, October 1995.

[656]   International Telecommunication Union, "Interfaces for Digital
        Component Video Signals in 525-line and 625-line Television



Gharai/Perkins                                                 [Page 13]

INTERNET-DRAFT              Expires: May 2003              November 2002


        Systems Operating at the 4:2:2 Level of Recommendation ITU-R
        BT.601 (Part A)", Recommendation BT.656, April 1998.

[22028] ISO TC42 (Photography), Photography and graphic technology -
        Extended colour encodings for digital image storage,
        manipulation and interchange - Part 1: Architecture and
        requirements, ISO/CD 22028-1, Work in Progress.












































Gharai/Perkins                                                 [Page 14]
