
IDMR Working Group                                           Dave Thaler
INTERNET-DRAFT                                    University of Michigan
Expires December 1996                                       13 June 1996


             Distance-Vector Multicast Routing Protocol MIB
                    <draft-thaler-dvmrp-mib-03.txt>


Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its areas, and
its working groups.  Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as "work in progress."


1.  Introduction

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in the Internet
community.  In particular, it describes managed objects used for
managing the Distance-Vector Multicast Routing Protocol (DVMRP) protocol
[5,6].  This MIB module is applicable to IP multicast routers which
implement DVMRP.





















Expires 13 December 1996                                        [Page 1]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                       June 1996


2.  The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework

The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework consists of four major com-
ponents.  They are:

o    RFC 1442 [1] which defines the SMI, the mechanisms used for
     describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.

o    STD 17, RFC 1213 [2] defines MIB-II, the core set of managed
     objects for the Internet suite of protocols.

o    RFC 1445 [3] which defines the administrative and other
     architectural aspects of the framework.

o    RFC 1448 [4] which defines the protocol used for network access to
     managed objects.

The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose of
experimentation and evaluation.


2.1.  Object Definitions

Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) defined in the
SMI.  In particular, each object type is named by an OBJECT IDENTIFIER,
an administratively assigned name.  The object type together with an
object instance serves to uniquely identify a specific instantiation of
the object.  For human convenience, we often use a textual string,
termed the descriptor, to refer to the object type.


3.  Overview

This MIB module contains four scalars and five tables.  The tables are:

(1)  the DVMRP Virtual Interface Table which contains one row for each
     of the router's DVMRP virtual interfaces, and augments the
     Multicast Routing Interface Table from the IP Multicast MIB [7];

(2)  the DVMRP Neighbor Table which contains one row for each of the
     router's DVMRP neighbors;

(3)  the DVMRP Route Table which contains one row for each subnet in
     the routing table;

(4)  the DVMRP Routing Next Hop Table containing information on the



Expires 13 December 1996                                        [Page 2]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                       June 1996


     next hops for the routing IP multicast datagrams.  Each entry
     is one of a list of next hops on outgoing virtual interfaces
     for a particular subnet origin;

(5)  the DVMRP Alternate Subnet Table which contains one row for each
     additional subnet on a physical interface.


4.  Revision History

13 June

(1)  moved dvmrpBoundaryTable to the IP Multicast MIB

(2)  replaced dvmrpNeighborVersion with dvmrpNeighborMajorVersion,
     dvmrpNeighborMinorVersion, and dvmrpNeighborCapabilities

11 December

(1)  added dvmrpNumRoutes and dvmrpReachableRoutes gauges to aid
     in detecting specific MBone problems.

(2)  added dvmrpVInterfaceStatus and changed MAX-ACCESS of existing
     columns to allow remote configuration of tunnels.

(3)  added dvmrpAltNetTable to allow management of alternate subnet
     information on physical interfaces.

6 June

(1)  updated dvmrpMIB with IANA-assigned OID

(2)  added dvmrpVInterfaceInOctets and dvmrpVInterfaceOutOctets

(3)  added subnet(4) to dvmrpVInterfaceType

(4)  modified dvmrpNeighborTable to be INDEX-ed by
     dvmrpNeighborVifIndex and dvmrpNeighborAddress

(5)  added dvmrpRouteTable and dvmrpRouteNextHopTable

23 March - initial version.









Expires 13 December 1996                                        [Page 3]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                       June 1996


5.  Definitions

DVMRP-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE, experimental,
    Integer32, Counter32, Gauge32,
    IpAddress, TimeTicks             FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    DisplayString, RowStatus         FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP  FROM SNMPv2-CONF;

dvmrpMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9606131400Z"
    ORGANIZATION "IETF IDMR Working Group."
    CONTACT-INFO
            " Dave Thaler
              University of Michigan
              1301 Beal Ave.
              Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2122
              EMail: thalerd@eecs.umich.edu"
    DESCRIPTION
            "The MIB module for management of DVMRP routers."
    ::= { experimental 62 }

dvmrpMIBObjects OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dvmrpMIB 1 }

dvmrp           OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dvmrpMIBObjects 1 }

dvmrpVersion OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The router's DVMRP version information."
    ::= { dvmrp 1 }

dvmrpGenerationId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The generation identifier for the routing process.  This is
            used by neighboring routers to detect whether pruning
            information should be resent."
    ::= { dvmrp 2 }

dvmrpNumRoutes OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Gauge32



Expires 13 December 1996                                        [Page 4]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                       June 1996


    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of entries in the routing table.  This can
            be used to monitor the routing table size to detect
            illegal advertisements of unicast routes."
    ::= { dvmrp 9 }

dvmrpReachableRoutes OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Gauge32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of entries in the routing table with non
            infinite metrics.  This can be used to detect network
            partitions by observing the ratio of reachable routes
            to total routes."
    ::= { dvmrp 10 }


-- The DVMRP Virtual Interface Table

dvmrpVInterfaceTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF DvmrpVInterfaceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing the router's DVMRP virtual
            interfaces."
    ::= { dvmrp 3 }

dvmrpVInterfaceEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     DvmrpVInterfaceEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the dvmrpVInterfaceTable.
            This row augments ipMRouteInterfaceEntry in the IP
            Multicast MIB, where the threshold object resides."
    INDEX      { dvmrpVInterfaceVifIndex }
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceTable 1 }

DvmrpVInterfaceEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    dvmrpVInterfaceVifIndex           Integer32,
    dvmrpVInterfaceType               INTEGER,
    dvmrpVInterfaceOperState          INTEGER,
    dvmrpVInterfaceLocalAddress       IpAddress,
    dvmrpVInterfaceRemoteAddress      IpAddress,



Expires 13 December 1996                                        [Page 5]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                       June 1996


    dvmrpVInterfaceRemoteSubnetMask   IpAddress,
    dvmrpVInterfaceMetric             Integer32,
    dvmrpVInterfaceRateLimit          Integer32,
    dvmrpVInterfaceInPkts             Counter32,
    dvmrpVInterfaceOutPkts            Counter32,
    dvmrpVInterfaceInOctets           Counter32,
    dvmrpVInterfaceOutOctets          Counter32,
    dvmrpVInterfaceStatus             RowStatus }

dvmrpVInterfaceVifIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The ifIndex value of this DVMRP virtual interface."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 1 }

dvmrpVInterfaceType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER { tunnel(1), srcrt(2), querier(3), subnet(4) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The type of this DVMRP virtual interface, whether it uses
            a tunnel, source routing, a physical interface for which
            we are a querier, or a physical interface for which we are
            not a querier."
    DEFVAL     { tunnel }
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 2 }

dvmrpVInterfaceOperState OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER { up(1), down(2) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The current operational state of this DVMRP virtual
            interface."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 3 }

dvmrpVInterfaceLocalAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the local end of this DVMRP virtual
            interface."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 4 }

dvmrpVInterfaceRemoteAddress OBJECT-TYPE



Expires 13 December 1996                                        [Page 6]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                       June 1996


    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the remote end of this DVMRP virtual
            interface.  For a tunnel (including source routed), this
            is the IP address of the neighboring router.  For a subnet,
            this is the subnet address."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 5 }

dvmrpVInterfaceRemoteSubnetMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The subnet mask for a directly connected subnet.  For
            a tunnel, this should be 0.0.0.0."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 6 }

dvmrpVInterfaceMetric OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The distance metric for this DVMRP virtual interface which
            is used to calculate distance vectors."
    DEFVAL     { 1 }
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 7 }

dvmrpVInterfaceRateLimit OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The rate-limit, in kilobits per second, of forwarded
            multicast traffic on the DVMRP virtual interface.  A rate-
            limit of 0 indicates that no rate limiting is done."
    DEFVAL     { 500 }
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 8 }

dvmrpVInterfaceInPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of packets that have arrived on the DVMRP
            virtual interface."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 9 }



Expires 13 December 1996                                        [Page 7]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                       June 1996


dvmrpVInterfaceOutPkts OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of packets that have been sent on the DVMRP
            virtual interface."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 10 }

dvmrpVInterfaceInOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of octets that have arrived on the DVMRP
            virtual interface."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 11 }

dvmrpVInterfaceOutOctets OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Counter32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The number of octets that have been sent on the DVMRP
            virtual interface."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 12 }

dvmrpVInterfaceStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this entry.  Creating the entry enables
            DVMRP on the virtual interface; destroying the entry
            or setting it to notInService disables DVMRP on the
            virtual interface."
    ::= { dvmrpVInterfaceEntry 13 }


-- The DVMRP Neighbor Table

dvmrpNeighborTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF DvmrpNeighborEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing the router's DVMRP
            neighbors, as discovered by receiving Neighbor Probe



Expires 13 December 1996                                        [Page 8]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                       June 1996


            messages."
    ::= { dvmrp 4 }

dvmrpNeighborEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     DvmrpNeighborEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the dvmrpNeighborTable."
    INDEX      { dvmrpNeighborVifIndex, dvmrpNeighborAddress }
    ::= { dvmrpNeighborTable 1 }

DvmrpNeighborEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    dvmrpNeighborVifIndex        Integer32,
    dvmrpNeighborAddress         IpAddress,
    dvmrpNeighborUpTime          TimeTicks,
    dvmrpNeighborExpiryTime      TimeTicks,
    dvmrpNeighborGenerationId    Integer32,
    dvmrpNeighborMajorVersion    Integer32,
    dvmrpNeighborMinorVersion    Integer32,
    dvmrpNeighborCapabilities    BITS }

dvmrpNeighborVifIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of VifIndex for the virtual interface used to
            reach this DVMRP neighbor."
    ::= { dvmrpNeighborEntry 1 }

dvmrpNeighborAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The IP address of the DVMRP neighbor for which this entry
            contains information."
    ::= { dvmrpNeighborEntry 2 }

dvmrpNeighborUpTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The time since this DVMRP neighbor (last) became a neighbor
            of the local router."
    ::= { dvmrpNeighborEntry 3 }



Expires 13 December 1996                                        [Page 9]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                       June 1996


dvmrpNeighborExpiryTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The minimum time remaining before this DVMRP neighbor will
            be aged out."
    ::= { dvmrpNeighborEntry 4 }

dvmrpNeighborGenerationId OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The neighboring router's generation identifier."
    ::= { dvmrpNeighborEntry 6 }

dvmrpNeighborMajorVersion OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..255)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The neighboring router's major DVMRP version number."
    ::= { dvmrpNeighborEntry 7 }

dvmrpNeighborMinorVersion OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32 (0..255)
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The neighboring router's minor DVMRP version number."
    ::= { dvmrpNeighborEntry 8 }

dvmrpNeighborCapabilities OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     BITS {
                   leaf(0),
                   prune(1),
                   generationID(2),
                   mtrace(3)
               }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "This object describes the neighboring router's
             capabilities.  The leaf bit indicates that the neighbor has
             only one interface with neighbors.  The prune bit indicates
             that the neighbor supports pruning.  The generationID bit
             indicates that the neighbor sends its generationID in Probe



Expires 13 December 1996                                       [Page 10]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                       June 1996


             messages.  The mtrace bit indicates that the neighbor can
             handle mtrace requests."
    ::= { dvmrpNeighborEntry 9 }


-- The DVMRP Route Table

dvmrpRouteTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF DvmrpRouteEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The routing table used by DVMRP in place of the unicast
            routing table."
    ::= { dvmrp 5 }

dvmrpRouteEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     DvmrpRouteEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) containing the multicast routing
            information used by DVMRP in place of the unicast routing
            information."
    INDEX      { dvmrpRouteSource, dvmrpRouteSourceMask }
    ::= { dvmrpRouteTable 1 }

DvmrpRouteEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    dvmrpRouteSource             IpAddress,
    dvmrpRouteSourceMask         IpAddress,
    dvmrpRouteUpstreamNeighbor   IpAddress,
    dvmrpRouteVifIndex           Integer32,
    dvmrpRouteMetric             Integer32,
    dvmrpRouteExpiryTime         TimeTicks }

dvmrpRouteSource OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The network address which when combined with the
            corresponding value of dvmrpRouteSourceMask identifies the
            sources for which this entry contains multicast routing
            information."
    ::= { dvmrpRouteEntry 1 }

dvmrpRouteSourceMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress



Expires 13 December 1996                                       [Page 11]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                       June 1996


    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The network mask which when combined with the corresponding
            value of dvmrpRouteSource identifies the sources for which
            this entry contains multicast routing information."
    ::= { dvmrpRouteEntry 2 }

dvmrpRouteUpstreamNeighbor OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The address of the upstream neighbor (e.g., RPF neighbor)
            from which IP datagrams from these sources are received."
    ::= { dvmrpRouteEntry 3 }

dvmrpRouteVifIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The value of dvmrpVInterfaceVifIndex for the virtual
            interface on which IP datagrams sent by these sources are
            received."
    ::= { dvmrpRouteEntry 4 }

dvmrpRouteMetric OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The distance in hops to the source subnet."
    ::= { dvmrpRouteEntry 5 }

dvmrpRouteExpiryTime OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     TimeTicks
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The minimum amount of time remaining before this entry will
            be aged out."
    ::= { dvmrpRouteEntry 6 }

-- The DVMRP Routing Next Hop Table

dvmrpRouteNextHopTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF DvmrpRouteNextHopEntry



Expires 13 December 1996                                       [Page 12]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                       June 1996


    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table containing information on the next
            hops on outgoing interfaces for routing IP multicast
            datagrams."
    ::= { dvmrp 6 }

dvmrpRouteNextHopEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     DvmrpRouteNextHopEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the list of next hops on
            outgoing interfaces to which IP multicast datagrams from
            particular sources are routed."
    INDEX      { dvmrpRouteNextHopSource, dvmrpRouteNextHopSourceMask,
                 dvmrpRouteNextHopVifIndex }
    ::= { dvmrpRouteNextHopTable 1 }

DvmrpRouteNextHopEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    dvmrpRouteNextHopSource             IpAddress,
    dvmrpRouteNextHopSourceMask         IpAddress,
    dvmrpRouteNextHopVifIndex           Integer32,
    dvmrpRouteNextHopType               INTEGER }

dvmrpRouteNextHopSource OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The network address which when combined with the
            corresponding value of dvmrpRouteNextHopSourceMask
            identifies the sources for which this entry specifies
            a next hop on an outgoing interface."
    ::= { dvmrpRouteNextHopEntry 1 }

dvmrpRouteNextHopSourceMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The network mask which when combined with the corresponding
            value of dvmrpRouteNextHopSource identifies the sources for
            which this entry specifies a next hop on an outgoing
            interface."
    ::= { dvmrpRouteNextHopEntry 2 }




Expires 13 December 1996                                       [Page 13]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                       June 1996


dvmrpRouteNextHopVifIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The dvmrpVInterfaceVifIndex value of the virtual interface
            for the outgoing interface for this next hop."
    ::= { dvmrpRouteNextHopEntry 3 }

dvmrpRouteNextHopType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     INTEGER { leaf(1), branch(2) }
    MAX-ACCESS read-only
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "Type is leaf if no neighbors exist on the outgoing virtual
            interface.  Otherwise, type is branch."
    ::= { dvmrpRouteNextHopEntry 4 }

-- The DVMRP Alternate Subnet Table

dvmrpAltNetTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     SEQUENCE OF DvmrpAltNetEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The (conceptual) table listing the router's alternate
            subnets on physical interfaces for use in constructing
            the routing tables."
    ::= { dvmrp 8 }

dvmrpAltNetEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     DvmrpAltNetEntry
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "An entry (conceptual row) in the dvmrpAltNetTable."
    INDEX      { dvmrpAltNetVifIndex, dvmrpAltNetAddress,
                 dvmrpAltNetMask }
    ::= { dvmrpAltNetTable 1 }

DvmrpAltNetEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    dvmrpAltNetVifIndex           Integer32,
    dvmrpAltNetAddress            IpAddress,
    dvmrpAltNetMask               IpAddress,
    dvmrpAltNetStatus             RowStatus }

dvmrpAltNetVifIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     Integer32



Expires 13 December 1996                                       [Page 14]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                       June 1996


    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The VifIndex value of the DVMRP virtual interface to
            which this alternate subnet applies."
    ::= { dvmrpAltNetEntry 1 }

dvmrpAltNetAddress OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The subnet address of the alternate subnet."
    ::= { dvmrpAltNetEntry 2 }

dvmrpAltNetMask OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     IpAddress
    MAX-ACCESS not-accessible
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The subnet mask of the alternate subnet."
    ::= { dvmrpAltNetEntry 3 }

dvmrpAltNetStatus OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX     RowStatus
    MAX-ACCESS read-create
    STATUS     current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The status of this row, by which new entries may be
            created, or old entries deleted from this table."
    ::= { dvmrpAltNetEntry 4 }


-- conformance information

dvmrpMIBConformance OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dvmrpMIB 2 }

dvmrpMIBCompliances OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dvmrpMIBConformance 1 }

dvmrpMIBGroups      OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { dvmrpMIBConformance 2 }


-- compliance statements

dvmrpMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "The compliance statement for the DVMRP MIB."



Expires 13 December 1996                                       [Page 15]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                       June 1996


    MODULE  -- this module
        MANDATORY-GROUPS { dvmrpMIBGroup }

    ::= { dvmrpMIBCompliances 1 }


-- units of conformance

dvmrpMIBGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { dvmrpVersion, dvmrpGenerationId,
              dvmrpNumRoutes, dvmrpReachableRoutes,
              dvmrpVInterfaceType, dvmrpVInterfaceOperState,
              dvmrpVInterfaceLocalAddress, dvmrpVInterfaceRemoteAddress,
              dvmrpVInterfaceRemoteSubnetMask,
              dvmrpVInterfaceMetric, dvmrpVInterfaceRateLimit,
              dvmrpVInterfaceInPkts, dvmrpVInterfaceOutPkts,
              dvmrpVInterfaceInOctets, dvmrpVInterfaceOutOctets,
              dvmrpVInterfaceStatus,
              dvmrpNeighborUpTime, dvmrpNeighborExpiryTime,
              dvmrpNeighborGenerationId, dvmrpNeighborMajorVersion,
              dvmrpNeighborMinorVersion, dvmrpNeighborCapabilities,
              dvmrpRouteUpstreamNeighbor, dvmrpRouteVifIndex,
              dvmrpRouteMetric, dvmrpRouteExpiryTime,
              dvmrpRouteNextHopType, dvmrpAltNetStatus
            }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
            "A collection of objects to support management of DVMRP
            routers."
    ::= { dvmrpMIBGroups 1 }

END


6.  Acknowledgements

David LeRoy and Bill Norton provided valuable feedback on the previous
draft.  This MIB module will be presented to the IETF's MBone Engineer-
ing BOF.  The members of the IDMR WG and the MBone community provided
the motivation for this work.



7.  References

[1]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Structure
     of Management Information for version 2 of the Simple Network
     Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1442, SNMP Research,Inc., Hughes



Expires 13 December 1996                                       [Page 16]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                       June 1996


     LAN Systems, Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., Carnegie Mellon
     University, April 1993.

[2]  McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-II", STD 17,
     RFC 1213, Hughes LAN Systems, Performance Systems International,
     March 1991.

[3]  Galvin, J., and K. McCloghrie, "Administrative Model for version 2
     of the Simple Network Management Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC 1445,
     Trusted Information Systems, Hughes LAN Systems, April 1993.

[4]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S. Waldbusser, "Protocol
     Operations for version 2 of the Simple Network Management Protocol
     (SNMPv2)", RFC 1448, SNMP Research,Inc., Hughes LAN Systems, Dover
     Beach Consulting, Inc., Carnegie Mellon University, April 1993.

[5]  Waitzman, D., Partridge, C., and S.E. Deering, "Distance Vector
     Multicast Routing Protocol", RFC 1075, Bolt Beranek and Newman,
     Stanford University, November 1988.

[6]  Pusateri, T., "Distance Vector Multicast Routing Protocol",
     June 1996.

[7]  McCloghrie, K., Farinacci, D., and Thaler, D, "IP Multicast
     Routing MIB", June 1996.


8.  Security Considerations

Security considerations are not discussed in this memo.


9.  Author's Address

   Dave Thaler
   Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science
   University of Michigan
   1301 Beal Ave.
   Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2122
   Phone: (313) 763-5243
   EMail: thalerd@eecs.umich.edu









Expires 13 December 1996                                       [Page 17]





Draft                          DVMRP MIB                       June 1996





                           Table of Contents



1 Introduction ....................................................    1
2 The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework .........................    2
2.1 Object Definitions ............................................    2
3 Overview ........................................................    2
4 Revision History ................................................    3
5 Definitions .....................................................    4
6 Acknowledgements ................................................   16
7 References ......................................................   16
8 Security Considerations .........................................   17
9 Author's Address ................................................   17


































Expires 13 December 1996                                       [Page 18]


