
                           - 1 -



Network Working Group                                  Susan Hares
INTERNET DRAFT                                        NSFNET/MERIT

March 1993



          Definition of Managed Objects for the IP for IDRP


1.) Status of this memo

   This memo proposes an extension to the SNMP MIB to support the
   adaptation of the ISO  Inter-Domain Routing Protocol ([1]) for that
   enables it to be used as an Inter-Autonomous System routing protocol
   in the TCP/IP Internet. This adaptation will be  called "IDRP for IP"
   [2] in this  document.

   Dual IDRP is defined to be a single instance of IDRP that can
   simultaneously support Inter-Domain/Inter-Autonomous System routing
   in the TCP/IP and OSI Internets.   An OSI IDRP for the
    purposes of this paper is defined to be an implementation of the ISO
   Inter-Domain Routing Protocol as defined in [1].

   The whole family of IDRP related documents and their functions are
   listed in [3].

   This document is an Internet Draft. Internet Drafts are working
   documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its Areas,
   and its Working Groups. Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet Drafts.

   Internet Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six
   months. Internet Drafts may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by
   other documents at any time. It is not appropriate to use Internet
   Drafts as reference material or to cite them other than as a "working
   draft" or "work in progress."


2. Acknowledgements

   The author wishes to note that BGP-3 MIB was used extensively in
   deciding on what managed objects should go into the IDRP GDMO.  From
   the IDRP GDMO, the same managed objects plus additions have been
   extracted.   The author notes with joy that ideas do recycle. We
   would also like to acknowledge the help of John Chu (T.J. Watson
   Research Center, IBM Corp.).









Expiration Date September 1993                                  [Page 1]

                           - 2 -



3.)  The Network Management Framework

   The Internet-standard Network Management Framework consists of three
   components.  They are:

        RFC 1155 [5] which defines the SMI, the mechanisms used for
        describing and naming objects for the purpose of management.
        RFC 1212 [6] defines a more concise description mechanism, which
        is wholly consistent with the SMI.

        RFC 1156 [7] which defines MIB-I, the core set of managed
        objects for the Internet suite of protocols.  RFC 1213 [8],
        defines MIB-II, an evolution of MIB-I based on implementation
        experience and new operational requirements.

        RFC 1157 [9] which defines the SNMP, the protocol used for
        network access to managed objects.

        The Framework permits new objects to be defined for the purpose
        of experimentation and evaluation.

4.  Objects



Managed objects are accessed via a virtual information store, termed the
Management Information Base or MIB.  Objects in the MIB are defined
using the subset of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1) [10] defined in
the SMI.  In particular, each object has a name, a syntax, and an
encoding.  The name is an object identifier, an administratively
assigned name, which specifies an object type.  The object type together
with an object instance serves to uniquely identify a specific
instantiation of the object.  For human convenience, we often use a
textual string, termed the OBJECT DESCRIPTOR, to also refer to the
object type.

The syntax of an object type defines the abstract data structure
corresponding to that object type.  The ASN.1 language is used for this
purpose.  However, the SMI [5] purposely restricts the ASN.1 constructs
which may be used.  These restrictions are explicitly made for
simplicity.

The encoding of an object type is simply how that object type is
represented using the object type's syntax.  Implicitly tied to the
notion of an object type's syntax and encoding is how the object type is
represented when being transmitted on the network.

The SMI specifies the use of the basic encoding rules of ASN.1 [11],
subject to the additional requirements imposed by the SNMP.







Expiration Date September 1993                                  [Page 2]

                           - 3 -



3.1.  Format of Definitions

Section 5 contains contains the specification of all object types
contained in this MIB module.  The object types are defined using the
conventions defined in the SMI, as amended by the extensions specified
in [6,12].



4.) Overview

   These objects are used to control and manage a IDRP for IP [x]
   implementation.


   IDRP  ([1])  is   defined  as  the   protocol  for  exchange   of
   Inter-Domain  routing  information  between routers  to  support
   forwarding  of  ISO  8473 (Connectionless   Network  Layer Protocol
   (CLNP))[4] PDUs.   The "IDRP for IP"  document [2] contains the a
   description adaptation of the IDRP protocol definition that enables
   it to be used as protocol for the exchange of inter-autonomous system
   information among routers to support the forwarding of IP packets
   across multiple autonomous systems.

   The adaptation is defined  is such a way that a Dual IDRP will be
   able to fully interoperate with IDRP for IP.


   The IDRP for IP MIB contains four sets of general IDRP variables from
   the ISO IDRP protocol:

      1.) idrpConfig package

      2.) adjacentBis package

      3.) Actions

      4.) Traps which Notify about IDRP problem
   The idrpConfig section is a group of MIB variables which are needed
   to configure a IDRP for IP BIS.  The following is a summary of the
   variables and table for a configuration of this BIS:
      1) version

      2) idrpIPTable - table of IP addresses for this BIS

      3) idrpNET  - NET for ISO communication

      4) localRDI - Routing Domain Identifier

      5) idrpInternalBisTable - BISs within your Domain






Expiration Date September 1993                                  [Page 3]

                           - 4 -



      6) idrpExternalBisTable - BIS exterior to your Domain

      7) idrpIntraIsTable -  Routers within your Domain

      8) idrpInternalSystems - Network Prefixes reachable within your
      domain

      9) idrpRdcConfigTable -  RDCs this node is

      10) idrpSnpaTable - SNPAs of this node

      11) idrpMultiExit - BIS use of MultiExit

      12) idrpRouteServer -  BIS can be a route server (3rd party idrp)

      13) collection of PDU size parameters and timers

      14) Authentication type   - Type of Authentication done

      The adjacentBis Table is a group of attributes which configure or
      record statistics for a connection with an adjacent BIS.  A
      similar group of variables in  the BGP-3 mib is the bgpPeerTable.

      The actions in the ISO protocols must be translated to attributes
      for SNMP's support.  The two IDRP actions - start a BIS-BIS
      connection and stop a BIS-BIS connection are encoded in one action
      variable.

      The TRAP section encodes the ISO IDRP protocol's notifications
      into SNMP traps.  The variables included in the Notifications are
      dependent on whether the protocol is running IDRP for IP only, OSI
      IDRP or Dual IDRP.

      The ISO IDRP specification (IS 10747) has events were taken from
      the BGP-3 Traps and expanded upon.  The following table compares
      BGP-3 Traps, ISO IDRP Events, and IDRP for IP TRAPs.




















Expiration Date September 1993                                  [Page 4]

                           - 5 -



BGP-3 Trap             ISO IDRP Event            IDRP for IP Trap
-------------------------------------------------------------------
bgpEstablished         EnterFSMState             idrpEnterFSMState
bgpBackwardTransition  FSMStateChange-*1         idrpFSMStateChange
none                   ErrorBISPDUsent           idrpErrorBispduSent
none                   OpenBISpduRDCError        idrpOpenBispduRdcError
none                   CorruptAdjRIBIn           idrpCorruptAdjRibIn
none                   PacketBomb                idrpPacketBomb

*1 - The bgpBackwardTransition- only indicates when the FSM
     state machine takes a lower state. The ISO event FSMStateChange and
     IDRP for IP Trap indicate whenever the FSM changes state.
     Implementations may look at turning off this TRAP notification
     under local control.





5. IDRP for IP MIB
IDRP for IP MIB assumes that:
    - the IpAddress from RFC-1213 will exist in any router using IDRP
    for IP;

    - clnpAddress from RFC-1238 will be in any router using OSI IDRP;
    and

    - IpAddress from RFC-1213  and clnpAddress from the RFC-1213 will be
    exist in any router router doing Dual-IDRP.


5.1 Definitions
























Expiration Date September 1993                                  [Page 5]

                           - 6 -





      RFCxxxx-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

       IMPORTS
          NetworkAddress, IpAddress, Counter
               FROM RFC1155-SMI
          mib-2
               FROM RFC1213-MIB
          OBJECT-TYPE
               FROM RFC-1212
          TRAP-TYPE
                FROM RFC-1215
          ClnpAddress
                FROM RFC-1238;

               -- This MIB module uses the extended OBJECT-TYPE macro as
               -- defined in [6], and the TRAP-TYPE macro as defined
               -- in [12].
                -- This MIB defines a new type of basic address format:
                -- clnpPrefix

         ClnpPrefix ::= SEQUENCE  {
                                prefixBits
                                 INTEGER,
                                prefix
                                  OCTET STRING
                                        }

               idrp OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { mib-2  99 }

               idrpVersion OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX INTEGER
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "The version of IDRP protocol this
                         machine defaults to using.
                         (ISO IDRP attribute:  version)"

                   ::= {idrp 1}

              idrpIPBisTable OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IpAddress
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "The IP address used by this node
                         for BIS to BIS communications."
                    ::={idrp 2}






Expiration Date September 1993                                  [Page 6]

                           - 7 -



               idrpNET   OBJECT-TYPE
                   SYNTAX  ClnpAddress
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "The ISO address this node is using."
                        ::={idrp 3}

               idrplocalRdi OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX OCTET STRING
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "The Routing Domain Identifier for this
                         routing Domain."
                    ::= { idrp 4}


                --Note: for a routing domain with both IP and
                --OSI use the Routing Domain Identifier format in
                --IDRP for IP document [1].


               idrpInternalBisTable OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IDRPInternalBisEntry
                    ACCESS not-accessible
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The set Network Address which
                          identify the the BIS in this routing
                          Domain.
                          (ISO IDRP attribute: InternalBis)"
                ::={idrp 5}



              idrpinternalBisEntry OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX IDRPInternalBisEntry
                    ACCESS not-accessible
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "Network Address Information about an BIS
                         internal to this routing domain."

                    INDEX
                        {
                        idrpInternalBisIndex
                        }
                        ::= { idrpInternalBisTable 1 }







Expiration Date September 1993                                  [Page 7]

                           - 8 -



              IdrpInternalBisEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
                    idrpInternalBisIndex
                        INTEGER,
                    idrpInternalBisRouterID
                        INTEGER,
                    idrpInternalBisIpAddress
                        IpAddress,
                    idrpInternalBisNet
                        ClnpPrefix
                        }


                idrpInternalBisIndex OBJECT-TYPE
                        SYNTAX INTEGER
                        ACCESS read-only
                        STATUS mandatory
                        DESCRIPTION
                                "Index into the idrpInternal BIS table
                                 for SNMP table walking."
                        ::= { idrpInternalBisEntry 1 }

                idrpInternalBisRouterID OBJECT-TYPE
                        SYNTAX INTEGER
                        ACCESS read-only
                        STATUS mandatory
                        DESCRIPTION
                                "Router ID for each Internal BIS
                                 router table as a part of the
                                 index to all BIS neighbors for
                                 this BIS router.  This
                                 ties the configuration of
                                 multiple IP addresses to a single
                                 router."
                                ::= { idrpInternalBisEntry 2 }

                idrpInternalBisIPAddress  OBJECT-TYPE
                        SYNTAX IPAddress
                        ACCESS read-only
                        STATUS mandatory
                        DESCRIPTION
                                "The IP Address for a BIS
                                 internal to this routing Domain."

                        ::= { idrpInternalBisEntry 3 }

                idrpInternalBisNet  OBJECT-TYPE
                        SYNTAX ClnpAddress
                        ACCESS read-only
                        STATUS mandatory
                        DESCRIPTION
                                "The ISO NET address for a BIS





Expiration Date September 1993                                  [Page 8]

                           - 9 -



                                 internal to this routing Domain."
                        ::= { idrpInternalBisEntry 4 }


                idrpIntraIsTable OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IDRPIntraIsEntry
                    ACCESS not-accessible
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "A Table of Network Addresses of the
                         IS to which the local BIS may deliver
                         an inbound packet whose destination
                         lies within the BIS's routing domain.
                         These routers (ISs) must be located on the
                         on the same common subnet as this local BIS,
                         and must be capable of delivering packets
                         to the destinations that are located within
                         the local BIS's routing domain."
                ::= { idrp 6 }


                idrpIntraIsEntry OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX IDRPIntraIsEntry
                    ACCESS not-accesible
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "Information about a local router (ISs) to
                         which the BIS may deliver an inbound packet
                         whose destination lies within the BIS's
                         routing domain."

                    INDEX
                        {
                        idrpIntraIsIndex
                        }
                        ::= { idrpIntraIsTable 1}


                IDRPIntraIsEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
                    idrpIntraISIndex
                        INTEGER,
                    idrpIntraIsRouterID
                        INTEGER,
                    idrpIntraBisIpIdentifier
                        IpAddress,
                    idrpIntraBisNetIdentifier
                        ClnpAddress
                        }

                idrpIntraISIndex OBJECT-TYPE
                        SYNTAX INTEGER





Expiration Date September 1993                                  [Page 9]

                           - 10 -



                        ACCESS read-only
                        STATUS mandatory
                        DESCRIPTION
                                "Index into the idrpIntraIS  table
                                 for SNMP table walking."
                        ::= { idrpIntraIsEntry 1 }


               idrpIntraIsRouterID  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX INTEGER
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "Index to idrpIntraIS Table
                         router table for each remote
                         Internal BIS router."

                ::= { idrpIntraIsEntry 2 }



               idrpIntraBisIPIdentifier  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX IPAddress
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "The IP Address for a local router (ISs) to
                         which the BIS may deliver an inbound packet
                         whose destination lies within the BIS's
                         routing domain."
                    ::= { idrpIntraIsEntry 3 }

               idrpIntraBisNetIdentifier OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX ClnpAddress
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "The CLNP Address for a local router (ISs) to
                         which the BIS may deliver an inbound packet
                         whose destination lies within the BIS's
                         routing domain."
                    ::= { idrpIntraIsEntry 4 }


                idrpExternalBisNeighborTable OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IDRPExternalBisNeighborEntry
                    ACCESS not-accessible
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "A Table of Network Addresses which
                         identify the BISs in adjacent routing





Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 10]

                           - 11 -



                         domains which are reachable via a
                         single subnetwork hop - that is
                         on the same subnet."

                ::= {idrp 7}


                idrpExternalBisNeighborEntry OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX IDRPExternalBisNeighborEntry
                    ACCESS not-accessible
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "A Network Address of a BIS in adjacent
                         routing domains which are reachable via a
                         single subnetwork hop - that is
                         on the same subnet."

                    INDEX
                        {
                        idrpExternalBisIndex
                        }
                        ::= { idrpExternalBisNeighborEntry 1}


                IDRPExternalBisNeighborEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
                    idrpExternalBisIndex
                        INTEGER,
                    idrpExternalBisNeighborRouterID
                        INTEGER,
                    idrpExternalBisNeighborIpAddress
                        IpAddress,
                    idrpExternalBisNeighborNet
                        ClnpAddress,
                    idrpExternalBisRDI
                        ClnpAddress
                        }


                idrpExternalBISIndex OBJECT-TYPE
                        SYNTAX INTEGER
                        ACCESS read-only
                        STATUS mandatory
                        DESCRIPTION
                                "Index into the idrpExternalBisNeighbor
                                 table for SNMP table walking."
                        ::= { idrpExternalBisNieghborEntry 1 }

                idrpExternalBisRouterID OBJECT-TYPE
                        SYNTAX INTEGER
                        ACCESS read-only
                        STATUS mandatory





Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 11]

                           - 12 -



                        DESCRIPTION
                                "Index to Internal BIS
                                 router table for each remote
                                 Internal BIS router."

                        ::= { idrpExternalBisNeighborEntry 2 }

               idrpExternalBisNeighborIPAddress  OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX IPAddress
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "The IP Address of a BIS in adjacent
                         routing domains which are reachable via a
                         single subnetwork hop - that is
                         on the same subnet."

                    ::= { idrpExternalBisNeighborEntry 3 }

               idrpExternalBisNeighborNet OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX ClnpAddress
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "The CLNP Address for of a BIS in adjacent
                         routing domains which is reachable via a
                         single subnetwork hop - that is
                         on the same subnet."

                    ::= { idrpExternalBisNeighborEntry 4 }

              idrpExternalBisRDI OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX ClnpAddress
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "The Routing Domain Identifier for a BIS
                         in adjacent routing domain which is reachable
                         via a single subnetwork hop - that is
                         on the same subnet."

                    ::= { idrpExternalBisNeighborEntry 5 }

              idrpInternalSystemsTable OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IDRPInternalSystemsEntry
                    ACCESS not-accessible
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "A table of Network prefixes and Addresses
                         which identify the systems in this routeing
                         Domain which the BIS uses to construct





Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 12]

                           - 13 -



                         the network layer reachability information."

                ::= {idrp 8}


                idrpInternalSystemsEntry OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX IDRPInternalSystemsEntry
                    ACCESS not-accesible
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "A table of Network prefixes and Addresses
                         which identify the systems in this routeing
                         Domain which the BIS uses to construct
                         the network layer reachability information."

                   INDEX
                        {
                        idrpInternalSystemSequenceID
                        }
                        ::= { idrpInternalSystemEntry  1}

                IDRPInternalSystemEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
                    idrpInternalSystemSequenceID
                        INTEGER,
                    idrpInternalSystemProtocolType
                        INTEGER,
                    idrpInternalSystemProtocol
                        OCTET STRING,
                    idrpInternalSystemLength
                        INTEGER,
                    idrpInternalSystemPrefix
                        OCTET STRING
                        }

                idrpInternalSystemSequenceID OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX INTEGER
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "Local ID and index for the list of
                         the IDRP Internal Systems. "

                    ::= {idrpInternalSystemEntry 1}


                idrpInternalSystemProtocolType OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX INTEGER {
                        nlpid(1),
                        ethertype(2),
                        lsap(3)
                        }





Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 13]

                           - 14 -



                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "Identifier for the numbering scheme for
                         the System Protocol type used in ISO IDRP
                         specification.  This Identifier allows
                         multiple protocols within the ISO specification.
                         The NLPID number scheme protocol type will
                         be the only valid type for the IP and
                         OSI IDRP."

                    ::= { idrpInternalSystemEntry 2 }

                idrpInternalSystemProtocol OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX OCTET STRING
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "The Protocol Identifier for the address type
                         of the Internal System network layer
                         reachability information.  The only valid
                         type for IDRP for IP is IP.  The only valid
                         types for Dual are IP and CLNP.
                         ('CC') for IP
                         ('81') fpr CLNP
                         ('80 000000 86dd') for SIP."
                    ::= { idrpInternalSystemEntry 3 }

                idrpInternalSystemLength OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX INTEGER
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "Length of the InternalSystemPrefix in
                         bits.   The InternalSystemPrefix may
                         be 1-32 bits for an IP address.  The
                         Supernetting Document [2] should be
                         referred to for the concepts of IP prefixes.
                         The length of the InternalSystems can be
                         0-160 bits for a CLNP address. "
                     ::= { idrpInternalSystemEntry 4 }

                idrpInternalSystemPrefix OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX OCTET STRING
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "Sequence of Octets which encode the
                         Internal System network Address Prefix.
                         This sequence of octets may represent either
                         IP address(es) for IDRP for IP, or





Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 14]

                           - 15 -



                         either IP address(es) or CLNP Addresses for
                         Dual IDRP. A Network Address Prefix
                         may represent one network address
                         or many network addresses or networks.
                         For details on how to aggregate IP routes
                         using an IP network address prefix,
                         please refer to the RFC on IDRP for IP[x].
                         For details on how to aggreate OSI routes
                         using OSI NET structure, please
                         refer to the RFC on NSAP allocation[x]."
                    ::= { idrpInternalSystemEntry 5 }


               idrpRdcConfigTable OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IDRPRdcConfigEntry
                    ACCESS not-accessible
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "A table of all of the Routing Confederations
                         to which the RD of this BIS belongs
                         and the nesting relationships that are in force
                         between them.  The nesting relationships
                         are described as a sequence of sets of
                         RDC Identifiers."
                    ::= { idrp 9 }


              idrpRdcConfigTableEntry OBJECT-TYPE
                   SYNTAX IdrpRdcConfigTableEntry
                   ACCESS not-accessible
                   STATUS mandatory
                   DESCRIPTION
                        " Information about a Routing Confederation
                          to which the RD of this BIS belongs."
                   INDEX
                        { idrpRdcSetIndex }
                        ::= { idrpRDCConfigTable 1  }

             IdrpRdcConfigTableEntry ::=SEQUENCE {
                   idrpRdcSetIndex
                        INTEGER,
                   idrpRdcSetId
                        INTEGER,
                   idrpRdcSetMemberCount
                        INTEGER,
                   idrpRdcMemberRdi1
                        OCTET STRING,
                   idrpRdcMemberRdi2
                        OCTET STRING,
                   idrpRdcMemberRdi3
                        OCTET STRING,





Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 15]

                           - 16 -



                   idrpRdcMemberRdi4
                        OCTET STRING,
                   idrpRdcMemberRdi5
                        OCTET STRING
                }


             idrpRdcSetIndex OBJECT-TYPE
                  SYNTAX INTEGER
                  ACCESS read-only
                  STATUS mandatory
                  DESCRIPTION
                        "Index into the IdrpRdcConfigTable for
                         SNMP table walking so that a set of
                         RDIs within a RDC set may span multiple
                         table entries.    This table definition
                         is a redefining of ISO RdcGroup function
                         into something the Simple Network Management
                         Protocol (SNMP) can handle."
                  ::= { idrpRdcConfigTableEntry 1 }



             idrpRdcSetId OBJECT-TYPE
                  SYNTAX INTEGER
                  ACCESS read-only
                  STATUS mandatory
                  DESCRIPTION
                        "Identifer for Set of RDCs RD belongs to."
                  ::= { idrpRdcConfigTableEntry 2 }


             idrpRdcSetMemberCount OBJECT-TYPE
                  SYNTAX INTEGER
                  ACCESS read-only
                  STATUS mandatory
                  DESCRIPTION
                        "Count of RDIs in the RDC member count.
                         If this variable is set to zero, this
                         line is a continuation line for an RDC
                         set."
                  ::= { idrpRdcConfigTableEntry 3 }


             idrpRdcMemberRDI1 OBJECT-TYPE
                   SYNTAX OCTET STRING
                   ACCESS read-only
                   STATUS mandatory
                   DESCRIPTION
                        " 1st RDI for this pariticular set of RDC that
                          this BIS belongs to."





Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 16]

                           - 17 -



                  ::= { idrpRdcConfigTableEntry 4 }



             idrpRdcMemberRDI2 OBJECT-TYPE
                   SYNTAX OCTET STRING
                   ACCESS read-only
                   STATUS mandatory
                   DESCRIPTION
                        " 2nd RDI for this pariticular set of RDC that
                          this BIS belongs to."
                  ::= { idrpRdcConfigTableEntry 5 }


             idrpRdcMemberRDI3 OBJECT-TYPE
                   SYNTAX OCTET STRING
                   ACCESS read-only
                   STATUS mandatory
                   DESCRIPTION
                        "Third  RDI for this pariticular set of RDC that
                          this BIS belongs to."
                  ::= { idrpRdcConfigTableEntry 6 }

             idrpRdcMemberRDI4 OBJECT-TYPE
                   SYNTAX OCTET STRING
                   ACCESS read-only
                   STATUS mandatory
                   DESCRIPTION
                        " Fourth RDI for this pariticular set of RDC that
                          this BIS belongs to."
                  ::= { idrpRdcConfigTableEntry 7 }

             idrpRdcMemberRDI5 OBJECT-TYPE
                   SYNTAX OCTET STRING
                   ACCESS read-only
                   STATUS mandatory
                   DESCRIPTION
                        " Fifth RDI for this pariticular set of RDC that
                          this BIS belongs to."
                  ::= { idrpRdcConfigTableEntry 8 }


              idrpLocalSnpaTable  OBJECT-TYPE
                  SYNTAX IdrpLocalSnpaEntry
                  ACCESS read-only
                  STATUS mandatory
                  DESCRIPTION
                        "Table of SNPAs of this BIS."
                  ::= {idrp 10 }







Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 17]

                           - 18 -



              idrplocalSnpaEntry  OBJECT-TYPE
                  SYNTAX IdrpLocalSnpaEntry
                  ACCESS not-accessible
                  STATUS mandatory
                  DESCRIPTION
                        "Information about a SNPA on a BIS."
                  INDEX
                        { idrpIfIndex }
                        ::= { idrpLocalSnpaTable 1}

              IdrpLocalSnpaEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
                  idrpIfIndex
                        INTEGER,
                  idrpLocalSnpaAddress
                        OCTET STRING
                }

              idrpIfIndex OBJECT-TYPE
                  SYNTAX INTEGER
                  ACCESS read-only
                  STATUS mandatory
                  DESCRIPTION
                        "Identifier of the Interface to
                         which the SNPA belongs.  This
                         Identifer should match the IfTable
                         IfIndex value for the Interface."
                  ::= { idrpLocalSnpaEntry 1 }

             idrpLocalSnpaAddress  OBJECT-TYPE
                  SYNTAX OCTET STRING
                  ACCESS read-only
                  STATUS mandatory
                  DESCRIPTION
                        " SNPA for this interface of this
                          BIS."
                ::= { idrpLocalSnpaEntry 2 }


             idrpMultiExit OBJECT-TYPE
                 SYNTAX INTEGER { true(1), false(2)}
                 ACCESS read-write
                 STATUS mandatory
                 DESCRIPTION
                        "The indication whether this BIS will use
                         the MULTI_EXIT_DISC attribute to decide
                         between otherwise identical routes.
                         The multiExit parameter is used as the default
                         value for the multi_exit_disc function
                         in policy decisions.
                         (ISO IDRP managed object: multiExit "
                ::= { idrp 11 }





Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 18]

                           - 19 -



             idrpRouteServer OBJECT-TYPE
                 SYNTAX INTEGER { true(1), false(2)}
                 ACCESS read-write
                 STATUS mandatory
                 DESCRIPTION
                        "The indications whether is BIS may set
                         the IDRP_Server_Allowed field in the
                         NEXT_HOP attribute to FF(hex) for
                         BIS to BIS UPDATE BISPDUs.  If this variable
                         is true then in accordance with local policy,
                         the IDRP_Server_Allowed field may be set
                         on some UPDATE BISPDUs that this BIS sends.
                         If this attribute is set to false,
                         then no UPDATE BISPDUs will be sent by this
                         BIS with NEXT_HOP attributes containing an
                         IDRP_SERVER flag equal to FF(hex).
                         (ISO IDRP managed object routeServer)."
                ::= { idrp 12}

             idrpMaximumPduSize OBJECT-TYPE
                 SYNTAX INTEGER
                 ACCESS read-only
                 STATUS mandatory
                 DESCRIPTION
                        "The maximum number of octets that this BIS
                         is able to handle in an incoming BISPDU.
                         (ISO IDRP managed object: maximumPDUsize)"
                ::= { idrp 13 }


            idrpHoldTime OBJECT-TYPE
                 SYNTAX INTEGER
                 ACCESS read-only
                 STATUS mandatory
                 DESCRIPTION
                        "The maximum number of seconds that
                         may elapse between the receipt of two successive
                         BISPDUs of any of the following types:
                         KEEPALIVE, UPDATE, RIB CHECKSUM PDUs or
                         RIB REFRESH PDUs
                         (ISO IDRP holdTime attribute.)"
                ::= { idrp 14 }


             idrpOustandingPDUs OBJECT-TYPE
                 SYNTAX INTEGER
                 ACCESS read-only
                 STATUS mandatory
                 DESCRIPTION
                        "The maximum number of BISPDUs that may be
                         sent to this BIS without receiving an





Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 19]

                           - 20 -



                         acknowledgement.
                         (ISO IDRP oustandingPDUs attribute)."
                ::= { idrp 15 }


              idrpRetranmissionTime OBJECT-TYPE
                 SYNTAX INTEGER
                 ACCESS read-only
                 STATUS mandatory
                 DESCRIPTION
                        "The number of seconds between KEEPALIVE
                         messages if no other traffic is sent.
                         (ISO IDRP retranmissionTime attribute.)"
                ::= { idrp 16 }



              idrpCloseWaitDelayPeriod OBJECT-TYPE
                 SYNTAX INTEGER
                 ACCESS read-only
                 STATUS mandatory
                 DESCRIPTION
                        "The number of seconds the local
                         system shall stay in the CLOSE-WAIT
                         state prior to chaing to the CLOSED state.
                         (ISO IDRP closeWaitDelayPeriod attribute)"
                ::= { idrp 17 }

              idrpRdTransitDelay OBJECT-TYPE
                 SYNTAX INTEGER
                 ACCESS read-only
                 STATUS mandatory
                 DESCRIPTION
                        "The estimated average delay across a Routing
                         Domain in units of 500ms.
                         (ISO IDRP rdTransmitDealy attribute)"
                ::= { idrp 18 }


              idrpRdLRE OBJECT-TYPE
                 SYNTAX INTEGER
                 ACCESS read-only
                 STATUS mandatory
                 DESCRIPTION
                        "The average error rate of a Routeing Domain
                         in units of an integer which if divided by
                         2**32-1 will proviede the actual probablility
                         of the error.
                         (ISO IDRP rdLRE attribute)"
                ::= { idrp 19 }






Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 20]

                           - 21 -



              idrpLocExpense OBJECT-TYPE
                 SYNTAX INTEGER
                 ACCESS read-only
                 STATUS mandatory
                 DESCRIPTION
                        "The monetary expense of transiting this
                         Routeing Domain.  The attribute contains an
                         indication of cost and the units in which it is
                         calculated.
                         (ISO IDRP locExpense attribute.)"
                ::= { idrp 20 }


              idrpCapacity OBJECT-TYPE
                      SYNTAX INTEGER
                      ACCESS read-only
                      STATUS mandatory
                      DESCRIPTION
                             "The traffic carrying capacity of
                              this Routing Domain.
                              (ISO IDRP cacpity attribute)"
                     ::= { idrpCapacity 21 }


              idrpAdjacentBisTable OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX SEQUENCE OF IdrpAjacentBisEntry
                    ACCESS not-accessible
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The set of information about
                          an adjacent BIS peer.  Note
                          that the Configuration information
                          for this BIS in in the idrpConfig
                          section.  This information pertains
                          to active neighbors. "
                ::={idrp 22}



              idrpAdjacentBisEntry OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX IdrpAdjacnetBisEntry
                    ACCESS not-accessible
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "Entry for in AdjacentBISTable
                         for one adjacent BIS peer
                         to this BIS."
                    INDEX
                        {
                        idrpBISpeerID
                        }





Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 21]

                           - 22 -



                        ::= { idrpAdjacentBISTable  1}


             IdrAdjacentBISEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
                bisPeerID
                        INTEGER,
                bisNet
                        ClnpAddress,
                bisIPAddress
                        IpAddress,
                bisRdi
                        OCTET STRING (SIZE(1..20)),
                bisRdcId
                        INTEGER,
                bisNegotatedVersion
                        INTEGER,
                bisLocalSnpa
                        OCTET STRING,
                bisRemoteSNPA
                        OCTET STRING,
                bisState
                        INTEGER,
                bisLastSeqNoSent
                        INTEGER,
                bisLastSeqNoRecv
                        INTEGER,
                bisLastAckSent
                        INTEGER,
                bisLastAckReceived
                        INTEGER,
                bisUpdatesIn
                        INTEGER,
                bisUpdatesOut
                        INTEGER,
                totalBISPDUsIn
                        INTEGER,
                keepAlivesSinceLastUpdate
                        INTEGER,
                bisPeerAdminStatus
                        INTEGER
                }


             bisPeerID OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX INTEGER
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "Table Index for the Management information
                          about remote end of this BIS-BIS connection."
                ::= { idrpAdjacentBisEntry 1 }





Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 22]

                           - 23 -



             bisNet OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX CLNPAddress
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "NET of the remote BIS with which this
                         BIS is exchanging IDRP packets.
                         (ISO bisNET attribute)"
                ::= { idrpAdjacentBisEntry 2 }


            bisIPAddress OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX IpAddress
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "Ip Address of the remote BIS with which this
                         BIS is exchanging IDRP packets.
                         (No ISO attribute matches this.)"
                ::= { idrpAdjacentBisEntry 3 }

            bisRdi OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX OCTET STRING
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "RDI of the remote BIS with which this
                         BIS is exchanging IDRP packets.
                         (ISO bisRDI attribute)"
                ::= { idrpAdjacentBisEntry 4 }


            bisRdcId OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX OCTET STRING
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "Index into the BIS RDC Table which
                         lists the RDCs a remote BIS is associated
                         with.  The entries in this table represent
                         the RDC(s) the remote BIS belongs to in
                         this BIS to BIS connection.
                         (This plus table entries match the
                          ISO bisRDC attribute)."
                ::= { idrpAdjacentBisEntry 5 }

           bisNegotatedVersion OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX INTEGER
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION





Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 23]

                           - 24 -



                        "The negotiated version of IDRP protocol
                         this BIS to BIs connection is using."
                ::= { idrpAdjacentBisEntry 6 }


           bisLocalSnpa OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX OCTET STRING
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "Local SNPA used for this BIS connection.
                         (No ISO equivalent yet) "
                ::= { idrpAdjacentBisEntry  7 }

           bisremoteSnpa OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX OCTET STRING
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "RemoteSNPA of remote BIS used for this BIS connection."
                ::= { idrpAdjacentBisEntry  8 }


           bisLastSeqNoSent OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX INTEGER
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "The last sequence nubmer sent to the remote BIS
                         from this local BIS on this BIS to BIS
                         connection."
                ::= { idrpAdjacentBisEntry 9 }


           bisLastSeqNoRecv OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX INTEGER
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "The last sequence number received from the
                         remote BIS by the local BIS on this BIS to BIS
                         connection.
                         (ISO IDRP lastSeqNoRecv attribute)"
                ::= { idrpAdjacentBisEntry 10 }


            bisLastAckSent OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX INTEGER
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION





Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 24]

                           - 25 -



                        "The number of the last ack sent to the
                         remote BIS by the local BIS on this BIS to BIS
                         connection.
                         (ISO IDRP lastAckSent attribute)"
                ::= { idrpAdjacentBisEntry 11 }

            bisLastAckRecv OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX INTEGER
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "The number of the last ack received from the
                         remote BIS by the local BIS on this BIS to BIS
                         connection.
                         (ISO IDRP lastAckRecv attribute)"
                ::= { idrpAdjacentBisEntry 12 }

            bisUpdatesIn OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX INTEGER
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "The number of UPDATE BISPDUs received by this
                         BIS on this BIS to BIS connection.
                         (ISO IDRP updatesIn attribute)"
                ::= { idrpAdjacentBisEntry 13 }

            bisUpdatesOut OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX INTEGER
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "The number of UPDATE BISPDUs sent by this
                         BIS on this BIS to BIS connection.
                         (ISO IDRP updatesOut attribute)"
                ::= { idrpAdjacentBisEntry 14 }


            bisTotalBISPDUsIn OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX INTEGER
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "The number of BISPDUs received by this
                         BIS on this BIS to BIS connection.
                         (ISO IDRP totalBISPDUsIn attribute)"
                ::= { idrpAdjacentBisEntry 15 }

            bisTotalBISPDUsOut OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX INTEGER
                    ACCESS read-only





Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 25]

                           - 26 -



                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "The number of BISPDUs received by this
                         BIS on this BIS to BIS connection.
                         (ISO IDRP totalBISPDUsOut attribute)"
                ::= { idrpAdjacentBisEntry 16 }

            bisKeepAlivesSinceLastUpdate OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX INTEGER
                    ACCESS read-only
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "The number of KEEPALIVE BISPDUs received by this
                         BIS on this BIS to BIS connection since
                         the last UPDATE BISODU.
                         (ISO IDRP keepAlivesSinceLastUpdate attribute)"
                ::= { idrpAdjacentBisEntry 17 }



---Actions
               bisPeerAdminStatus OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX INTEGER {start(1), stop(0)}
                    ACCESS read-write
                    STATUS mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                         "The desired state of the idrp connection. A
                         transition from 'stop' to 'start' will cause
                         the idrp Start Event to be generated. A
                         transition from 'start' to 'stop' will cause
                         the idrp Stop Event to be generated. This
                         parameter can be used to restart BGP peer
                         connections.  Care should be used in providing
                         write access to this object without adequate
                         authentication."
                    ::= { idrpAdjacentBisEntry 17 }

---Traps
-- IP only would leave the idrpRemoteNET as Null OCTET STRING

                idrpErrorBISPDUsent TRAP-TYPE
                    ENTERPRISE { idrp }
                    VARIABLES { idrpRemoteBisID,
                                idrpRemoteBisIpAddress,
                                idrpRemoteBisNET,
                                bispduErrorcode,
                                bispduErrorSubCode,
                                bispduErrorInfo
                                }
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "This trap is genererated when a BISPDU





Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 26]

                           - 27 -



                         is received with an error in its format.
                         (ISO NOTIFICIATION communicationAlarms
                          notification with errorBISPDUsent text)
                         [No BGP Trap equivalent]"
                        ::= 1

                idrpOpenBISpduRDCError TRAP-TYPE
                    ENTERPRISE { idrp }
                    VARIABLES { idrpRemoteBisID,
                                idrpRemoteBisIpAddress,
                                idrpRemoteBisNET,
                                bispduErrorcode,
                                idrpRdcConfigTableId,
                                bisRDCTableId
                                }
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "This trap is generated when an OPEN BISPDU
                         is received from another BIS in the same
                         routeing domain, and the remote BIS
                         is not a member of the identically
                         same confederations as teh local BIS.
                         (ISO NOTIFICIATION communicationAlarms
                          notification with OpenBISpduRDCError text)
                         [No BGP Trap equivalent]"
                        ::= 2

                idrpCorruptAdjRIBIn  TRAP-TYPE
                    ENTERPRISE { idrp }
                    VARIABLES { idrpRemoteBisID,
                                idrpRemoteBisIpAddress,
                                idrpRemoteBisNET
                                }
                    DESCRIPTION
                        "This trap is generated when the local BIS
                         using a local method detects the the Adj-Rib
                         has found an error.  Al Adj-RIBs-In are
                         being purged.
                         (ISO NOTIFICIATION communicationAlarms
                          notification with CorruptAdjRibIn text)
                         [No BGP Trap equivalent]"
                        ::= 3


                idrpPacketBomb TRAP-TYPE
                    ENTERPRISE { idrp }
                    VARIABLES { idrpRemoteBisID,
                                idrpRemoteBisIpAddress,
                                idrpRemoteBisNET,
                                idrpRemoteBisRdi,
                                idrpRemoteBisRdcConfigTableId
                                }





Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 27]

                           - 28 -



                    DESCRIPTION
                        "This trap is generated when the local
                         BIS has been presented with a BISPDU
                         whose source is not one of the BISs
                         adjacent to the local BIS.  Such BISPDUs
                         are rejected by the local BIS.
                        (ISO NOTIFICIATION communicationAlarms
                          notification with PacketBomb text)
                         [No BGP Trap equivalent]"

                        ::= 4


END








6.  Security Considerations

   Security issues are not discussed in this memo.








7.  References

[1]   ISO/IEC DIS 10747 - Information Processing
      Systems - Telecommunications and Information Exchange
      between Systems - Protocol for Exchange of Inter-domain
      Routeing Information among Intermediate Systems to
      Support Forwarding of ISO 8473 PDUs, 1992.

[2]   Hares, S;  IDRP for IP; Internet Draft

[3]   Hares, S;  IDRP Document Family ; Internet Draft

[4]   ISO 8473 - Information  Processing Systems - Data Communications -
      Protocol for Providing the Connectionless-mode Network
      Service, 1988.


[5]  Rose M., and K. McCloghrie, "Structure and Identification of





Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 28]

                           - 29 -



     Management Information for TCP/IP-based internets", RFC 1155,
     Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems, May 1990.

[6]  Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, Editors, "Concise MIB Definitions",
     RFC 1212, Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems,
     March 1991.


[7]  McCloghrie K., and M. Rose, "Management Information Base for
     Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets", RFC 1156, Hughes
     LAN Systems, Performance Systems International, May 1990.

[8]  McCloghrie K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management Information Base
     for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets", RFC 1213,
     Performance Systems International, March 1991.

[9]  Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin, "Simple
     Network Management Protocol", RFC 1157, SNMP Research,
     Performance Systems International, Performance Systems
     International, MIT Laboratory for Computer Science, May 1990.

[10] Information processing systems - Open Systems Interconnection -
     Specification of Abstract Syntax Notation One (ASN.1),
     International Organization for Standardization, International
     Standard 8824, December 1987.

[11] Information processing systems - Open Systems Interconnection -
     Specification of Basic Encoding Rules for Abstract Notation One
     (ASN.1), International Organization for Standardization,
      International Standard 8825, December 1987.

[12] Rose, M., Editor, "A Convention for Defining Traps for use with
     the SNMP", RFC 1215, Performance Systems International, March
     1991.


8) Author's addresses:

   Susan Hares

   MERIT Inc.

   1071 Beal Avenue

   Ann Arbor, MI 48103-2112

   phone: (313)936-2095

   email: skh@merit.edu







Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 29]

                           - 30 -



























































Expiration Date September 1993                                 [Page 30]

