
Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


	 Definitions of	Managed	Objects	for Applications

			 January 31, 1996


               <draft-ietf-applmib-sysapplmib-00.txt>


			 Jonathan Saperia
			 BGS Systems Inc.
			 saperia@bgs.com

			 Cheryl	Krupczak
		    Empire Technologies, Inc.
		      cheryl@empiretech.com

			    Rick Sturm
			     US	West
			rsturm@.uswest.com

			Jonathan Weinstock
			     Bellcore
		jonathan.weinstock@cc.bellcore.com






		       Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft.  Internet-Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its
areas, and its working groups.	Note that other	groups may also
distribute working documents as	Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts	are draft documents valid for a	maximum	of six
months and may be updated, replaced, or	obsoleted by other
documents at any time.	It is inappropriate to use Internet-
Drafts as reference material or	to cite	them other than	as ``work
in progress.''

To learn the current status of any Internet-Draft, please check
the ``1id-abstracts.txt'' listing contained in the Internet-
Drafts Shadow Directories on ds.internic.net (US East Coast),
nic.nordu.net (Europe),	ftp.isi.edu (US	West Coast), or
munnari.oz.au (Pacific Rim).








Expires	July 31, 1996					  [Page	1]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


1.  Abstract

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management
Information Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols
in the Internet	community. In particular, it describes a basic set
of managed objects for fault, configuration and	performance
management of applications.

This memo does not specify a standard for the Internet community.














































Expires	July 31, 1996					  [Page	2]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


2.  The	SNMPv2 Network Management Framework

The SNMPv2 Network Management Framework	consists of four major
components.  They are:

o    RFC 1442 [1] which	defines	the SMI, the mechanisms	used for
     describing	and naming objects for the purpose of management.

o    STD 17, RFC 1213 [2] defines MIB-II, the core set of managed
     objects for the Internet suite of protocols.

o    RFC 1445 [3] which	defines	the administrative and other
     architectural aspects of the framework.

o    RFC 1448 [4] which	defines	the protocol used for network
     access to managed objects.

The Framework permits new objects to be	defined	for the	purpose	of
experimentation	and evaluation.


2.1.  Object Definitions

Managed	objects	are accessed via a virtual information store,
termed the Management Information Base or MIB. Objects in the MIB
are defined using the subset of	Abstract Syntax	Notation One
(ASN.1)	defined	in the SMI[1]. In particular, each object type is
named by an OBJECT IDENTIFIER, an administratively assigned name.
The object type	together with an object	instance serves	to
uniquely identify a specific instantiation of the object. For
human convenience, we often use	a textual string, termed the
object descriptor, to refer to the object type.























Expires	July 31, 1996					  [Page	3]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


3.  Overview

The primary purpose of computing technologies is the execution of
application software. These applications, typically specialized
collections of executables, files and interprocess communications
exist to solve business, scientific or other "problems". The
fault, performance monitoring and control of application software
across it's life on a host computer is of great	economic
importance. For	the purposes of	our work, we define applications
as one or more units of	executable code	and other resources,
installed on a single host system that a manager may think of as a
single object for management purposes.


The information	described by the objects in the	System Application
MIB support configuration, fault and performance management of
some of	the basic attributes of	application software.  The
information allows for the description of applications as a
collection of executables, and files installed and executing on	a
host computer.

This draft is concerned	primarily with and models application
information resident on	a host computer	which is discoverable in a
rudimentary fashion by todays agent and	operating systems
technologies. This approach was	taken to insure	ease and speed of
implementation,	while allowing room for	future growth.

We believe that	this work will be followed by the subsequent
modeling and specification of management information accessible
via application	instrumentation. These new "appl MIB" objects will
participate as multiple	Generic	Application MIB	instances within
each host platform.

In this	architecture there will	be one copy of this MIB	for
**each** managed application.  Therefore, this means that there
will be	multiple copies	of this	type of	MIB on a system	**in
addition to** the single copy of the SysAppl MIB.  The working
group will not address this MIB	until the SysAppl MIB has been
created

The overall structure and relationship of MIBs is illustrated in
the following diagram.













Expires	July 31, 1996					  [Page	4]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


	    ------------------------------
	    |				 |
	    |	      -----------	 |
	    |	      |	SysAppl	|	 |
	    |	      |	 MIB	|	 |
	    |	      -----------	 |
	    |----------------------------|
	    |  ---------  ----------	 |
	    | |ApplMIB1	|| ApplMIB 2|	 |
	    |  ---------  ----------	 |
	    |  ----------  ----------	 |
	    | |ApplMIB3	 || ApplMIB N|	 |
	    |  ----------  ----------	 |
	    ------------------------------









































Expires	July 31, 1996					  [Page	5]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


4.  The	Structure of the MIB

The System Application MIB structure reflects the notion of
applications which have	been installed on a system and which may
contain	many components	some of	which are executables, others are
not.

The objects are	arranged into the following groups:

    -  System Application Installed Group

    -  System Application Run Group

The System Application Installed group consists	of two tables. The
first, the sysApplInstalledTable exists	to capture what
applications are installed on a	particular host. The second, the
sysApplCfgElmTable, provides information regarding the executables
and non	executable files which collectively compose the
application. This information is discoverable provided that
certain	conventions are	followed by administrators during the
installation of	host application software.  Through these two
tables administrators will be able to determine	which applications
have been installed on a system	and what their constituent
components are.

The System Application Run Group: This group consists of two
primary	tables and two scalars.	The sysApplRunTable contains the
host applications which	are running or have run	in the recent
past. An entry is created in this table	for each instance on an
application which is or	has been run.  As a result, multiple
entires	can appear in this table for a single installed
application. The second	table is the sysApplElmtRunTable.  Entries
in this	table are created whenever an application executes one of
its elements.  Entries in this table are tied to entries in the
sysApplRunTable	so that	an administrator can determine which
elements are running/have run with each	instance of and
application execution.	Two scalar objects are also included in
this group to allow user control of the	size, and resources
consumed by the	sysApplRun and the sysApplElmtRunTables.
















Expires	July 31, 1996					  [Page	6]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


5.  Definitions

SYSAPPL-MIB DEFINITIONS	::= BEGIN

IMPORTS
    MODULE-IDENTITY, OBJECT-TYPE,
    Integer32
	FROM SNMPv2-SMI
    DisplayString, DateAndTime
	FROM SNMPv2-TC
    MODULE-COMPLIANCE, OBJECT-GROUP
	FROM SNMPv2-CONF
    mib-2 FROM RFC1213-MIB;

-- System Application MIB

sysApplMIB MODULE-IDENTITY
    LAST-UPDATED "9601260000Z"
    ORGANIZATION "IETF Aplications MIB Working Group"
    CONTACT-INFO
	  "Cheryl Krupczak (WG Advisor)
	   Postal: Empire Technologies,	Inc.
	   541 Tenth Street NW
	   Suite 169
	   Atlanta, GA 30318
	   USA
	   Phone: (770)	384-0184
	   Email: cheryl@empiretech.com

	   Jon Saperia (WG Co-Chair)
	   Postal:  BGS	Systems, Inc.
	   128 Technology Center
	   Waltham, MA 02254-9111
	   USA
	   Phone: (617)	891-0000 ext 340
	   Email: saperia@bgs.com

	   Rick	Sturm (WG Co-Chair)
	   Postal: U S WEST
	   345 Norton Street
	   Boulder, CO 8030
	   USA
	   Phone:(303)624-0031
	   Email: rsturm.uswest.com

	   Jonathan A. Weinstock (WG Editor)
	   Potal:  Bellcore
	   444 Hoes Lane
	   Piscataway, NJ 08855
	   USA
	   Phone: (908)	699-5862
	   Email: jonathan.weinstock@cc.bellcore.com"
    DESCRIPTION


Expires	July 31, 1996					  [Page	7]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


	"The MIB module	defines	an application on a system platform"
    ::=	{ mib-2	9999  }

sysApplInstalled	 OBJECT	IDENTIFIER ::= { sysApplMIB 1 }
sysApplRun		 OBJECT	IDENTIFIER ::= { sysApplMIB 2 }
sysApplConformance	 OBJECT	IDENTIFIER ::= { sysApplMIB 3 }

-- The system installed	applications group provides information
-- about packages and all of their constituent elements	such as
-- executable and configuration	files found on a system.

-- The system installed	applications table provides information
-- software packages loaded on a system.  These	packages can be
-- a combination of many different files.

sysApplInstalledTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SEQUENCE OF SysApplInstalledEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The table describing the software installed on	a
	platform."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalled 1 }

sysApplInstalledEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SysApplInstalledEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The logical row describing installed software
	components."
    INDEX    { sysApplInstalledIndex }
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalledTable	1 }

SysApplInstalledEntry ::= SEQUENCE {
    sysApplInstalledIndex		Integer32,
    sysApplInstalledManufacturer	DisplayString,
    sysApplInstalledProductName		DisplayString,
    sysApplInstalledVersion		DisplayString,
    sysApplInstalledSerialNumber	DisplayString,
    sysApplInstalledDate		DateAndTime,
    sysApplInstalledLocation		DisplayString,
    sysApplInstalledPrimExec		DisplayString
}

sysApplInstalledIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32 (1..'7fffffff'h)
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"A unique index	for this sysApplInstalledEntry."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalledEntry	1 }



Expires	July 31, 1996					  [Page	8]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


sysApplInstalledManufacturer OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The Manufacturer of the software application."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalledEntry	2 }

sysApplInstalledProductName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The name provided to the software application by the
	Manufacturer."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalledEntry	3 }

sysApplInstalledVersion	OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The version of	the product assigned by	the
	manufacturer of	the software."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalledEntry	4 }

sysApplInstalledSerialNumber OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The serial number of the software assigned by the
	manufacturer."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalledEntry	5 }

sysApplInstalledDate OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The date and time this	software application was installed on
	the host."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalledEntry	6 }

sysApplInstalledLocation OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The path	name where the executables are stored for the
      application."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalledEntry	7 }



Expires	July 31, 1996					  [Page	9]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


sysApplInstalledPrimExec OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The is	the name of the	primary	executable associated
	with this application."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalledEntry	8 }

-- The sysApplCfgElem Table details the	elements which comprise	the
-- application defined in the sysApplInstalled Table.  Each entry in
-- this	table has an index to the sysApplInstalled table. As a result
-- there may be	many entries in	this table for each instance in	the
-- sysApplInstalled Table.

sysApplCfgElmtTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SEQUENCE OF SysApplCfgElmtEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The table describing the application executables and non
	executables installed on a platform."
    ::=	{ sysApplInstalled 2 }

sysApplCfgElmtEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SysApplCfgElmtEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The logical row describing installed software executables and
	non executable components of an	application."
    INDEX    { sysApplCfgElmtIndex }
    ::=	{ sysApplCfgElmtTable 1	}

SysApplCfgElmtEntry ::=	SEQUENCE {
    sysApplCfgElmtIndex			Integer32,
    sysApplCfgElmtInstalledApplIndex	Integer32,
    sysApplCfgElmtName			DisplayString,
    sysApplCfgElmtType			INTEGER,
    sysApplCfgElmtDate			DateAndTime,
    sysApplCfgElmtPath			DisplayString,
    sysApplCfgElmtSize			Integer32
}

sysApplCfgElmtIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32 (1..'7fffffff'h)
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The index for this table."
    ::=	{ sysApplCfgElmtEntry 1	}

sysApplCfgElmtInstalledApplIndex OBJECT-TYPE


Expires	July 31, 1996					 [Page 10]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The index of the installed application	within which this
	element	is contained."
    ::=	{ sysApplCfgElmtEntry 2}

sysApplCfgElmtName OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The name of this element which	is contained in	the
	application."
    ::=	{ sysApplCfgElmtEntry 3	}

sysApplCfgElmtType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	INTEGER	{
		executable(1),
		nonexecuatble(2)
		}
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The type of element that is part of the installed
	application."
    ::=	{ sysApplCfgElmtEntry 4	}

sysApplCfgElmtDate OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The date and time that	this component was installed on	the
	system."
    ::=	{ sysApplCfgElmtEntry 5	}

sysApplCfgElmtPath OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The full path name of this file."
    ::=	{ sysApplCfgElmtEntry 6}

sysApplCfgElmtSize OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The size	of the file in Kbytes."
    ::=	{ sysApplCfgElmtEntry 7	}


Expires	July 31, 1996					 [Page 11]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


-- The sysApplRun Group	contains information about applications
-- are currently running or have run on	the host.

sysApplRunTable	OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SEQUENCE OF SysApplRunEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The table describes the applications which are	executing or
	have executed on the host.  Each time an application is	run
	an entry is created in this table.  Table size is controlled
	by the sysApplRunTableLimit object."
    ::=	{ sysApplRun 1 }

sysApplRunEntry	OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SysApplRunEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The logical row describing the	applications which are
	currently running and have run on this host.  Entries
	remain in this table until they	are rolled out according
	to the sysApplRunTableLimit object."
    INDEX    { sysApplRunIndex }
    ::=	{ sysApplRunTable   1 }

SysApplRunEntry	::= SEQUENCE {
    sysApplRunIndex			    Integer32,
    sysApplRunInstalledIndex		    Integer32,
    sysApplRunLastStarted		    DateAndTime,
    sysApplRunCurrentState		    INTEGER,
    sysApplRunEnded			    DateAndTime
}

sysApplRunIndex	OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32 (1..'7fffffff'h)
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The index for this table."
    ::=	{ sysApplRunEntry 1 }

sysApplRunInstalledIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The pointer to the installed application	table."
    ::=	{ sysApplRunEntry 2 }

sysApplRunLastStarted OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only


Expires	July 31, 1996					 [Page 12]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The date and time that	the application	was last started."
    ::=	{ sysApplRunEntry 3 }

sysApplRunCurrentState OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	INTEGER	{
		running	(1),
		runnable (2), -- waiting for resource (CPU, etc.)
		waiting	(3),  -- waiting for event
		exiting	(4),  -- other invalid state
		complete (5), -- normal	exit at	sysApplRunEnded
		other (6)
		}
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
      "The current state of the	application if running,	or its
      exit state."
    ::=	{ sysApplRunEntry 4 }

sysApplRunEnded	OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The DateAndTime the application exited."
    ::=	{ sysApplRunEntry 5 }

-- The sysApplElmtRun Table consists of	entries	for elements of
-- application which are running or have run on	the host
-- system.

sysApplElmtRunTable OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SEQUENCE OF SysApplElmtRunEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The table describes the processes which are executing or have
	executed on the	host as	part of	an application.	It is
	possible to have multiple entries in this table	for each
	application."
    ::=	{ sysApplRun 2 }

sysApplElmtRunEntry OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	SysApplElmtRunEntry
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The logical row describing the	processes which	are
	currently running or have run on this host as part of an
	application.  Entries remain in	this table until they
	are rolled out according to the	sysApplElmtLimit


Expires	July 31, 1996					 [Page 13]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


	object."
    INDEX    { sysApplElmtRunIndex }
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunTable	1 }

SysApplElmtRunEntry ::=	SEQUENCE {
    sysApplElmtRunIndex		    Integer32,
    sysApplElmtRunID		    Integer32,
    sysApplElmtRunElemID	    Integer32,
    sysApplElmtRunTimeStarted	    DateAndTime,
    sysApplElmtRunTimeEnded	    DateAndTime,
    sysApplElmtRunState		    INTEGER,
    sysApplElmtRunPath		    DisplayString,
    sysApplElmtRunParameters	    DisplayString,
    sysApplElmtRunType		    INTEGER,
    sysApplElmtRunCPU		    Integer32,
    sysApplElmtRunMemory	    Integer32,
    sysApplElmtRunNumTCon	    Integer32,
    sysApplElmtRunNumFiles	    Integer32
}

sysApplElmtRunIndex OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	not-accessible
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The index for this table."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 1	}

sysApplElmtRunID OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32(1..'7fffffff'h)
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The index into	the running applications table."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 2	}

sysApplElmtRunElemID OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The index into	the installed element table."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 3	}

sysApplElmtRunTimeStarted OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The time the process was started."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 4	}

sysApplElmtRunTimeEnded	OBJECT-TYPE


Expires	July 31, 1996					 [Page 14]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


    SYNTAX	DateAndTime
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The time the process ended."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 5	}

sysApplElmtRunState OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	INTEGER	{
		running	(1),
		runnable (2), -- waiting for resource (CPU, etc.)
		waiting	(3),  -- waiting for event
		exiting	(4),  -- other invalid state
		complete (5), -- normal	exit at	sysApplRunEnded
		other (6)
		}
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The state of the running process or the state the
	process	when it	ended."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 6	}

sysApplElmtRunPath OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The full path name of the process."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 7	}

sysApplElmtRunParameters OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	DisplayString
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The starting parameters for the process."
::= { sysApplElmtRunEntry 8 }


sysApplElmtRunType OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	INTEGER	{
		unknown	(1),
		operatingSystem	(2),
		deviceDriver (3),
		application (4)
		}
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The type of the executable."
::= { sysApplElmtRunEntry 9 }



Expires	July 31, 1996					 [Page 15]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


sysApplElmtRunCPU OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The total CPU time of the running process."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 10 }

sysApplElmtRunMemory OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The average memory measured in	Kbytes used by this
	element."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 11 }

sysApplElmtRunNumTCon OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The number of transport connections used by the process."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 12 }

sysApplElmtRunNumFiles OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The number of files open by the element."
    ::=	{ sysApplElmtRunEntry 13 }

-- Additional Scalar objects to	control	table sizes

sysApplRunTableLimit OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The maximum size to allow the sysApplRunTableEnded
	grow before entries are	removed.  Entries will be
	removed	on the basis of	oldest	sysApplRunEnded
	value first."
    DEFVAL	{ 500 }
    ::=	{ sysApplRun 3 }

sysApplElemLimit OBJECT-TYPE
    SYNTAX	Integer32
    MAX-ACCESS	read-only
    STATUS	current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The maximum size to allow the sysApplElmtRun table to


Expires	July 31, 1996					 [Page 16]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


	grow before entries are	removed.  Entries will be
	removed	on the basis of	oldest sysApplElmtRunTimeEnded
	value first."
    DEFVAL	{ 500 }
    ::=	{ sysApplRun 4 }

-- Conformance Macros

sysApplMIBCompliances  OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sysApplConformance 1 }
sysApplMIBGroups       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { sysApplConformance 2 }

sysApplMIBCompliance MODULE-COMPLIANCE
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
	"Describes the requirements for	conformance to
	the System Application MIB"
    MODULE  -- this module
	MANDATORY-GROUPS { sysApplInstalledGroup,
			   sysApplRunGroup }
    ::=	{ sysApplMIBCompliances	1 }

sysApplInstalledGroup OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { sysApplInstalledManufacturer,
	      sysApplInstalledProductName,
	      sysApplInstalledVersion,
	      sysApplInstalledSerialNumber,
	      sysApplInstalledDate,
	      sysApplInstalledLocation,
	      sysApplInstalledPrimExec,
	      sysApplCfgElmtInstalledApplIndex,
	      sysApplCfgElmtName,
	      sysApplCfgElmtType,
	      sysApplCfgElmtDate,
	      sysApplCfgElmtPath,
	      sysApplCfgElmtSize }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The system application	installed group	contains
	information about applications which have been
	installed on the host system."
    ::=	{ sysApplMIBGroups 1 }

sysApplRunGroup	OBJECT-GROUP
    OBJECTS { sysApplRunInstalledIndex,
	      sysApplRunLastStarted,
	      sysApplRunCurrentState,
	      sysApplRunEnded,
	      sysApplElmtRunID,
	      sysApplElmtRunElemID,
	      sysApplElmtRunTimeStarted,
	      sysApplElmtRunTimeEnded,
	      sysApplElmtRunState,
	      sysApplElmtRunPath,


Expires	July 31, 1996					 [Page 17]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


	      sysApplElmtRunParameters,
	      sysApplElmtRunType,
	      sysApplElmtRunCPU,
	      sysApplElmtRunMemory,
	      sysApplElmtRunNumTCon,
	      sysApplElmtRunNumFiles,
	      sysApplRunTableLimit,
	      sysApplElemLimit }
    STATUS  current
    DESCRIPTION
	"The system application	run group contains information
	about applications and associated elements which have
	run or are currently running on	the host system."
    ::=	{ sysApplMIBGroups 2 }

END

6.  Acknowledgements

This document was produced by the Application MIB working group.



































Expires	July 31, 1996					 [Page 18]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


7.  References

[1]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S.	Waldbusser,
     "Structure	of Management Information for version 2	of the
     Simple Network Management Protocol	(SNMPv2)", RFC 1442, SNMP
     Research,Inc., Hughes LAN Systems,	Dover Beach Consulting,
     Inc., Carnegie Mellon University, April 1993.

[2]  McCloghrie, K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management Information
     Base for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets: MIB-
     II", STD 17, RFC 1213, Hughes LAN Systems,	Performance
     Systems International, March 1991.

[3]  Galvin, J., and K.	McCloghrie, "Administrative Model for
     version 2 of the Simple Network Management	Protocol
     (SNMPv2)",	RFC 1445, Trusted Information Systems, Hughes LAN
     Systems, April 1993.

[4]  Case, J., McCloghrie, K., Rose, M., and S.	Waldbusser,
     "Protocol Operations for version 2	of the Simple Network
     Management	Protocol (SNMPv2)", RFC	1448, SNMP Research,Inc.,
     Hughes LAN	Systems, Dover Beach Consulting, Inc., Carnegie
     Mellon University,	April 1993.
































Expires	July 31, 1996					 [Page 19]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


8.  Security Considerations

Security issues	are not	discussed in this memo.




















































Expires	July 31, 1996					 [Page 20]







Internet Draft	      System Application MIB	   January 31,1996


Table of Contents


1 Abstract ..................................................	 2
2 The SNMPv2 Network Management	Framework ...................	 3
2.1 Object Definitions ......................................	 3
3 Overview ..................................................	 4
4 The Structure	of the MIB ..................................	 6
5 Definitions ...............................................	 7
6 Acknowledgements ..........................................	18
7 References ................................................	19
8 Security Considerations ...................................	20











































Expires	July 31, 1996					 [Page 21]



