Fibre Channel Working Group                             Kha Sin Teow
INTERNET-DRAFT                                Hewlett-Packard Canada
                                                            John Chu
                                                            IBM Corp
                                                         Version 1.5
                                                        23 June 1994


                     Definitions of Managed Objects
            for the Fabric Element in Fibre Channel Standard
                     <draft-chu-fabric-mib-01.txt>

Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet Draft.  Internet Drafts are working
documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its Areas, and
its Working Groups. Note that other groups may also distribute working
documents as Internet Drafts.

Internet Drafts are valid for a maximum of six months and may be
updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any time.  It is
inappropriate to use Internet Drafts as reference material or to cite
them other than as a "working draft" or "work in progress."

Distribution of this memo is unlimited. Please send comments to the ANSI
X3T11 Fibre Channel Working Group: fibre-channel-ext@Think.COM.

Abstract

This memo defines an experimental portion of the Management Information
Base (MIB) for use with network management protocols in the Internets
community.  In particular, it defines the objects for managing the
operations of the Fabric Element portion of the Fibre Channel Standard
defined in [1], [2] and [3].

There is a companion memo [10], that defines the objects for managing
the operations of the Node portion of the Fibre Channel Standard (FC).

1. Overview

A Fibre Channel Fabric is an entity which interconnects Node Ports
(N_Ports) attached to it.  It provides transport and routing
capabilities.  In essense, a Fabric is a network of N_Ports that may
communicate with one another.  A Fabric is composed of one or more
Fabric Elements that are interconnected via Inter-element Links (IEL).
A Fabric Element is the smallest unit of a Fabric that meets the
definition of a Fabric.  Each Fabric Element must consists of at least
three external ports to connect to either N_Ports or other Fabric



Expiration Date December 1994                                   [Page 1]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


Elements.  A Fabric Element port may be of one of the following types:
        (1) F_Port (to connect to an N_Port),
        (2) E_Port (to connect to another Fabric Element),
        (3) M_Port (which can behave like an N_Port), and
        (4) FL_Port (which can support a FC Arbitrated Loop [12]).
This memo shall define objects related to a Fabric Element and its
F_Ports.  Objects related to other types of FC ports shall be defined in
future.

This memo assumes that a Fabric Element has an SNMP entity (manager,
agent, or proxy agent) associated with its managed objects.  The managed
objects are grouped by the categories of information they each carries:

        - the Configuration group
        - the Operation group
        - the Error group
        - the Accounting group
        - the Capability group

In each group, scalar objects and/or table entries are defined.  The
Configuration group contains configuration and service parameters for
the Fabric Element and the F_Port.  The Operation group contains status
parameters about the operations of the F_Port.  The Error group contains
counters recording the numbers of certain types of errors detected.  The
Accounting group contains counters for certain events occurred in the
F_Ports.  The Capability group contains the capability parameters for
the Fabric Element and the F_Ports.

2. Application of MIB-II to Fabric Element

2.1 The System Group

For the purposes of the sysServices object in the System Group of MIB-II
[9], Fibre Channel is a data link layer protocol.  Thus, for a Fabric
Element, sysServices will have the value "2".

2.2 The Interface Group

The Interface Group of MIB-II defines generic managed objects for
managing interfaces.  Although each F_Port of a Fabric Element is an
interface, either the mapping of some interface objects are
inappropriate or the definition of some interface objects are
insufficient for Fibre Channel.  Therefore the Interface Group of MIB-II
will not be mapped in this memo.

Note that a refinement of the Interface Group is being proposed [11].
When the status of [11] changes to "recommended" in future, the mapping
of the Interface Group may then be investigated.



Expiration Date December 1994                                   [Page 2]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


2.3 The SNMP Group

The SNMP Group of MIB-II is mandatory for all Fabric Elements that
support an SNMP management entity.
3. Object Definitions

        FCFABRIC-ELEMENT-MIB DEFINITIONS ::= BEGIN

        IMPORTS
           experimental, Counter, Gauge, TimeTicks
              FROM RFC1155-SMI
           OBJECT-TYPE
              FROM RFC-1212;

        -- Title
           fibreChannel OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { experimental 42 }

           fcFabric OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { fibreChannel 2 }

        -- Fabric Element
           fcFe OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { fcFabric 1 }

        -- Groups under fcFe
           fcFeConfig       OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { fcFe 1 }
           fcFeOp           OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { fcFe 2 }
           fcFeError        OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { fcFe 3 }
           fcFeAcct         OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { fcFe 4 }
           fcFeCap          OBJECT IDENTIFIER ::= { fcFe 5 }

        -- Type definitions.

        Boolean ::= INTEGER {
                yes (1),
                no (2)
        }

        MilliSeconds ::= INTEGER (0..4294967295)

        MicroSeconds ::= INTEGER (0..4294967295)

        FcNameId ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (8))
                -- Worldwide Name or Fibre Channel Name associated with
                -- an FC entity.  It's a Network_Destination_ID or
                -- Network_Source_ID composed of a value up to 60 bits
                -- wide, occupying the remaining 8 bytes while the first
                -- nible identifies the format of the Name_Identifier with
                -- hex values:
                -- 0: ignored



Expiration Date December 1994                                   [Page 3]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


                -- 1: IEEE 48-bit address,
                -- 2: IEEE extended,
                -- 3: Locally assigned,
                -- 4: 32-bit IP address,
                -- C: CCITT 60-bit individual address, and
                -- E: CCITT 60-bit group address.
                -- ([1] (19.3, Tables 41-44)).

        FabricName ::= FcNameId
                -- The Name Identifier of a Fabric.  Each Fabric shall
                -- provide a unique Fabric Name.
                -- Only the following formats are allowed:
                --   CCITT individual & group, IEEE, and Local.
                -- ([1](19.3.3, 23.7.3)).

        FcPortName ::= FcNameId
                -- The Name Identifier associated with a port
                -- Only the following formats are allowed:
                --   CCITT individual & group, IEEE, IEEE extended, and Local.
                -- ([1](19.3.3, 23.6.4 and 23.7.2))).

        FcAddressId ::= OCTET STRING (SIZE (3))
                -- Fibre Channel Address Identifier.  A 24-bit value unique
                -- within the address domain of a Fabric ([1](18.3))).

        FcRxDataFieldSize ::= INTEGER (128..2112)
                -- Receive Data_Field Size ([1](23.6.2.4, 23.6.8.5))).

        FcBbCredit ::= INTEGER (0..32767)
                -- Buffer-to-buffer Credit
                -- ([1](23.6.2.2, 23.7.1.2))).

        FcphVersion ::= INTEGER (0..255)
                -- FC-PH version ([1](23.7.1.1))).

        -- Class 1 Stacked Connect Support/Mode
        -- [1] (23.7.4.2)
        FcStackedConnMode ::= INTEGER {
                none            (1),
                transparent     (2),
                locked-down     (3)
        }

        -- Class of Service Capability Set
        FcCosCap ::= INTEGER (0..127)
                -- bit 0        Class F
                -- bit 1        Class 1
                -- bit 2        Class 2



Expiration Date December 1994                                   [Page 4]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


                -- bit 3        Class 3
                -- bit 4        Class 4
                -- bits 5-7     reserved for future

        -- FC-0 Baud Rates (FC-PH(REV 4.2(5.7))
        Fc0BaudRate ::= INTEGER {
                other           (1),    -- none of below
                oneEighth       (2),    -- 155 Mbaud
                quarter         (4),    -- 266 Mbaud
                half            (8),    -- 532 Mbaud
                full            (16)    --   1 Gbaud
        }

        -- Baud Rate Capability Set
        Fc0BaudRateCap ::= INTEGER (0..127)
                -- bit 0        other
                -- bit 1        oneEighth
                -- bit 2        quarter
                -- bit 3        half
                -- bit 4        full
                -- bits 5-7     reserved for future

        -- FC-0 Media Capability Set
        Fc0MediaCap ::= INTEGER (0..65535)
                -- bit 0        unknown
                -- bit 1        single mode fibre (sm)
                -- bit 2        multi-mode fibre 50 micron (m5)
                -- bit 3        multi-mode fibre 62.5 micron (m6)
                -- bit 4        video cable (tv)
                -- bit 5        miniature cable (mi)
                -- bit 6        shielded twisted pair (stp)
                -- bit 7        unshielded twisted pair (utp)
                -- bits 8-15    reserved for future use

        -- A specific FC-0 medium type associated with a port
        -- [1] (5.7)
        Fc0Medium ::= INTEGER {
                unknown (1),
                sm      (2),
                m5      (4),
                m6      (8),
                tv      (16),
                mi      (32),
                stp     (64),
                utp     (128)
        }

        -- The FC-0 transmitter type of a port



Expiration Date December 1994                                   [Page 5]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        -- [1] (5.7)
        Fc0TxType ::= INTEGER {
                        unknown         (1),
                        long-wave-laser (2),
                        short-wave-laser(3),
                        long-wave-LED   (4),
                        electrical      (5)
        }

        -- The FC-0 distance range associated with a port transmitter
        -- [1] (5.7)
        Fc0Distance ::= INTEGER {
                        unknown         (1),
                        long            (2),
                        intermediate    (3),
                        short           (4)
        }

        -- port index - values range from 1 to the value of fcFeNumFPorts
        FPortIndex ::= INTEGER
        -- The Configuration group

        -- This group consists of scalar objects and tables that
        -- contain the configuration and service parameters
        -- of the Fabric Element and the F_Ports.
        -- Implementation of this group is mandatory.

        fcFabricName OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FabricName
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The Name_Identifier of the Fabric to which this Fabric
                Element belongs.
                [1](23.7.3), [2](3.1.29), [3](3.1.21)"
            ::= { fcFeConfig 1 }

        fcElementName OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcNameId
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The Name_Identifier of the Fabric Element.
                [2](3.1.22), [3](3.1.14)"
            ::= { fcFeConfig 2 }






Expiration Date December 1994                                   [Page 6]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        fcFeNumFPorts OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      INTEGER (3..16777215)
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of F_Ports in the Fabric Element, regardless
                of their current state.
                [2](3.1.28), [3](4.3)"
            ::= { fcFeConfig 3 }

        -- the F_Port Configuration Table.
        -- This table contains, one entry for each F_Port,
        -- configuration parameters of the ports.

        fcFPortConfigTable OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF FcFPortConfigEntry
            ACCESS      not-accessible
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A table that contains, one entry for each F_Port in the
                Fabric Element, configuration and service parameters of
                the F_Ports.
                [1](23)"
            ::= { fcFeConfig 4 }

        fcFPortConfigEntry OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcFPortConfigEntry
            ACCESS      not-accessible
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "An entry containing the configuration and Service
                Parameters of a F_Port.
                [1](23)"
            INDEX { fcFPortConfigFPortIndex }
            ::= { fcFPortConfigTable 1 }


        FcFPortConfigEntry ::=
            SEQUENCE {
                fcFPortConfigFPortIndex
                    FPortIndex,
                fcFPortName
                    FcPortName,
                -- F_Port common service parameters
                fcFPortFcphVersionHigh
                    FcphVersion,
                fcFPortFcphVersionLow
                    FcphVersion,



Expiration Date December 1994                                   [Page 7]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


                fcFPortBbCredit
                    FcBbCredit,
                fcFPortRxBufSize
                    FcRxDataFieldSize,
                fcFPortRatov
                    MilliSeconds,
                fcFPortEdtov
                    MilliSeconds,
                -- F_Port class service parameters
                fcFPortCosSupported
                    FcCosCap,
                fcFPortIntermixSupported
                    Boolean,
                fcFPortStackedConnMode
                    FcStackedConnMode,
                fcFPortClass2SeqDeliv
                    Boolean,
                fcFPortClass3SeqDeliv
                    Boolean,
                fcFPortHoldTime
                    MicroSeconds,
                fcFPortBaudRate
                    Fc0BaudRate,
                fcFPortMedium
                    Fc0Medium,
                fcFPortTxType
                    Fc0TxType,
                fcFPortDistance
                    Fc0Distance
            }

        fcFPortConfigFPortIndex OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FPortIndex
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A unique value for each F_Port within the Fabric
                Element. This number ranges from 1 to the value of
                fcFeNumFPorts. The value remains constant for the
                identified F_Port until the management agent is re-
                initialized."
            ::= { fcFPortConfigEntry 1 }









Expiration Date December 1994                                   [Page 8]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        fcFPortName  OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcPortName
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The name identifier of this F_Port.  Each F_Port has a
                unique port name within the address space of the Fabric.
                [1](19.3.3, 23.7.2), [2](3.1.53) [3](3.1.44)"
            ::= { fcFPortConfigEntry 2 }


            -- F_Port common service parameters

        fcFPortFcphVersionHigh OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcphVersion
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The highest or most recent version of FC-PH that the
                F_Port is configured to support.
                [1](23.7.1.1), [2](10.4.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortConfigEntry 3 }

        fcFPortFcphVersionLow OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcphVersion
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The lowest or earliest version of FC-PH that the F_Port
                is configured to support.
                [1](23.7.1.1), [2](10.4.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortConfigEntry 4 }

        fcFPortBbCredit OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcBbCredit
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The total number of receive buffers available for
                holding Class 1 connect-request, Class 2 or 3 frames
                from the attached N_Port.  It is for buffer-to-buffer
                flow control in the direction from the attached N_Port
                (if applicable) to F_Port.
                [1](23.7.1.2), [2](10.4.1), [3](15.2)."
            ::= { fcFPortConfigEntry 5 }






Expiration Date December 1994                                   [Page 9]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        fcFPortRxBufSize OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcRxDataFieldSize
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The largest Data_Field Size (in octets) for an FT_1
                frame that can be received by the F_Port.
                [1](17.4, 23.7.1.4)"
            ::= { fcFPortConfigEntry 6 }

        fcFPortRatov OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      MilliSeconds
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The Resource_Allocation_Timeout Value configured for the
                F_Port.  This is used as the timeout value for
                determining when to reuse an N_Port resource such as a
                Recovery_Qualifier.  It represents E_D_TOV (see next
                object) plus twice the maximum time that a frame may be
                delayed within the Fabric and still be delivered.
                [1](23.7.1.6, 29.2.1.3), [3](14.4.1.2)."
            ::= { fcFPortConfigEntry 7 }

        fcFPortEdtov OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      MilliSeconds
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The E_D_TOV value configured for the F_Port. The
                Error_Detect_Timeout Value is used as the timeout value
                for detecting an error condition.
                [1](23.7.1.5, 29.2.1.2), [3](14.4.1.4)"
            ::= { fcFPortConfigEntry 8 }

                -- F_Port class service parameters

        fcFPortCosSupported OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcCosCap
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A value indicating the set of Classes of Service
                supported by the F_Port.
                [1](23.7.4.1), [2](Table 10.2), [3](15.3.5.1, 15.3.5.2)"

            ::= { fcFPortConfigEntry 9 }




Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 10]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        fcFPortIntermixSupported OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Boolean
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A flag indicating whether or not the F_Port supports an
                Intermixed Dedicated Connection.
                [1](23.7.4.2)"
            ::= { fcFPortConfigEntry 10 }

        fcFPortStackedConnMode OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcStackedConnMode
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A value indicating the mode of Stacked Connect supported
                by the F_Port.
                [1](23.7.4.2)"
            ::= { fcFPortConfigEntry 11 }

        fcFPortClass2SeqDeliv OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Boolean
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A flag indicating whether or not Class 2 Sequential
                Delivery is supported by the F_Port.
                [1](23.7.4.2)"
            ::= { fcFPortConfigEntry 12 }

        fcFPortClass3SeqDeliv OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Boolean
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A flag indicating whether or not Class 3 Sequential
                Delivery is supported by the F_Port.
                [1](23.7.4.2)"
            ::= { fcFPortConfigEntry 13 }

        fcFPortHoldTime OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      MicroSeconds
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The maximum time (in microseconds) that the F_Port shall
                hold a frame before discarding the frame if it is unable
                to deliver the frame. The value 0 means that the F_Port



Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 11]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


                does not support this parameter."
            ::= { fcFPortConfigEntry 14 }

        fcFPortBaudRate OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Fc0BaudRate
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The FC-0 baud rate of the F_Port.
                [1](5.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortConfigEntry 15 }

        fcFPortMedium OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Fc0Medium
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The FC-0 medium of the F_Port.
                [1](5.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortConfigEntry 16 }

        fcFPortTxType OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Fc0TxType
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The FC-0 transmitter type of the F_Port.
                [1](5.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortConfigEntry 17 }

        fcFPortDistance OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Fc0Distance
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The FC-0 distance range of the F_Port transmitter.
                [1](5.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortConfigEntry 18 }


        -- the Operation group

        -- This group consists of tables that contains operational
        -- status and established service parameters for the Fabric
        -- Element and the attached N_Ports.
        -- Implementation of this group is mandatory.

        -- The F_Port Operation table



Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 12]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        -- This table contains, one entry for each F_Port,
        -- the operational status and parameters of the F_Ports.

        fcFPortOperTable OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF FcFPortOperEntry
            ACCESS      not-accessible
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A table that contains, one entry for each F_Port in the
                Fabric Element, operational status and parameters of the
                F_Ports."
            ::= { fcFeOp 1 }

        fcFPortOperEntry OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcFPortOperEntry
            ACCESS      not-accessible
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "An entry containing operational status and parameters of
                a F_Port.
                [1]"
            INDEX { fcFPortOperFPortIndex }
            ::= { fcFPortOperTable 1 }


        FcFPortOperEntry ::=
            SEQUENCE {
                fcFPortOperFPortIndex
                    FPortIndex,
                fcFPortID
                    FcAddressId,
                fcFPortAttachedPortName
                    FcPortName,
                fcFPortConnectedPort
                    FcAddressId,
                fcFPortBbCreditAvailable
                    Gauge
            }

        fcFPortOperFPortIndex OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FPortIndex
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A unique value for each F_Port within the Fabric
                Element. This number ranges from 1 to the value of
                fcFeNumFPorts. The value of this object is identical to
                that of the fcFPortConfigFPortIndex. The value remains



Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 13]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


                constant for the identified F_Port until the management
                agent is re-initialized."
            ::= { fcFPortOperEntry 1 }

        fcFPortID    OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcAddressId
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The address identifier by which this F_Port is
                identified within the Fabric.  The F_Port may assign its
                address identifier to its attached N_Port during Fabric
                Login.
                [1](23.3), [2](4.5.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortOperEntry 2 }

        fcFPortAttachedPortName OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcPortName
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The port name of the attached N_Port, if applicable. If
                the value of this object is '0000000000000000'H, this
                F_Port has no N_Port attached to it.
                [1](23.6.4)"
            ::= { fcFPortOperEntry 3 }

        fcFPortConnectedPort OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcAddressId
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The address identifier of the destination F_Port with
                which this F_Port is currently engaged in a Class 1
                connection. If the value of this object is '000000'H,
                this F_Port is not engaged in a Class 1 connection.
                [1](28)"
            ::= { fcFPortOperEntry 4 }

        fcFPortBbCreditAvailable OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Gauge
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of buffers currently available for receiving
                frames from the attached port in the buffer-to-buffer
                flow control. The value should be less than or equal to
                fcFPortBbCredit.



Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 14]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


                [1](26)"
            ::= { fcFPortOperEntry 5 }


        -- The Fabric Login table
        --
        -- This table contains, one entry for each F_Port in the
        -- Fabric Element, the Service Parameters that have been
        -- established from the most recent Fabric Login (implicit or
        -- explicit).

        fcFPortFabricLoginTable OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF FcFPortFabricLoginEntry
            ACCESS      not-accessible
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A table that contains, one entry for each F_Port in the
                Fabric Element, services parameters established from the
                most recent Fabric Login (explicit or implicit).
                [1](23.3)"
            ::= { fcFeOp 2 }


        fcFPortFabricLoginEntry OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcFPortFabricLoginEntry
            ACCESS      not-accessible
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "An entry containing service parameters established from
                a successful Fabric Login.
                [1](23.3)"
            INDEX { fcFPortFabricLoginFPortIndex }
            ::= { fcFPortFabricLoginTable 1 }

        FcFPortFabricLoginEntry ::=
            SEQUENCE {
                fcFPortFabricLoginFPortIndex
                    FPortIndex,
                fcFPortFcphVersionAgreed
                    FcphVersion,
                fcFPortNPortBbCredit
                    FcBbCredit,
                fcFPortNPortRxDataFieldSize
                    FcRxDataFieldSize,
                fcFPortCosSuppAgreed
                    FcCosCap,
                fcFPortIntermixSuppAgreed
                    Boolean,



Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 15]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


                fcFPortStackedConnModeAgreed
                    FcStackedConnMode,
                fcFPortClass2SeqDelivAgreed
                    Boolean,
                fcFPortClass3SeqDelivAgreed
                    Boolean
            }

        fcFPortFabricLoginFPortIndex OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FPortIndex
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A unique value for each F_Port within the Fabric
                Element. This number ranges from 1 to the value of
                fcFeNumFPorts. The value of this object is identical to
                that of the fcFPortConfigFPortIndex. The value remains
                constant for the identified F_Port until the management
                agent is re-initialized."
            ::= { fcFPortFabricLoginEntry 1 }

        fcFPortFcphVersionAgreed OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcphVersion
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The version of FC-PH that the F_Port has agreed to
                support from the Fabric Login
                [1](23.7.1.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortFabricLoginEntry 2 }

        fcFPortNPortBbCredit OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcBbCredit
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The total number of buffers available for holding Class
                1 connect-request, Class 2 or Class 3 frames to be
                transmitted to the attached N_Port.  It is for buffer-
                to-buffer flow control in the direction from F_Port to
                N_Port.
                [1](23.6.2.2)"
            ::= { fcFPortFabricLoginEntry 3 }








Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 16]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        fcFPortNPortRxDataFieldSize OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcRxDataFieldSize
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The Receive Data Field Size of the attached N_Port. This
                is a binary value that specifies the largest Data Field
                Size for an FT_1 frame that can be received by the
                N_Port. The value is in number of bytes and ranges from
                128 to 2112 inclusive.
                [1](23.6.2.4)"
            ::= { fcFPortFabricLoginEntry 4 }

        fcFPortCosSuppAgreed OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcCosCap
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A flag indicating that the attached N_Port has requested
                the F_Port for the support of classes of services and
                the F_Port has granted the request.
                [1](23.6.7.1, 23.7.4.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortFabricLoginEntry 5 }

        fcFPortIntermixSuppAgreed OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Boolean
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A flag indicating that the attached N_Port has requested
                the F_Port for the support of Intermix and the F_Port
                has granted the request. This flag is only valid if
                Class 1 service is supported.
                [1](23.6.7.2, 23.7.4.2)"
            ::= { fcFPortFabricLoginEntry 6 }

        fcFPortStackedConnModeAgreed OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcStackedConnMode
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A value indicating whether the F_Port has agreed to
                support stacked connect from the Fabric Login. This is
                only meaningful if Class 1 service has been agreed.
                [1](23.6.7.2, 23.7.4.2)"
            ::= { fcFPortFabricLoginEntry 7 }





Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 17]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        fcFPortClass2SeqDelivAgreed OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Boolean
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A flag indicating whether the F_Port has agreed to
                support Class 2 sequential delivery from the Fabric
                Login. This is only meaningful if Class 2 service has
                been agreed.
                [1](23.6.7.1, 23.7.4.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortFabricLoginEntry 8 }

        fcFPortClass3SeqDelivAgreed OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Boolean
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A flag indicating whether the F_Port has agreed to
                support Class 3 sequential delivery from the Fabric
                Login. This is only meaningful if Class 3 service has
                been agreed."
            ::= { fcFPortFabricLoginEntry 9 }


        -- the F_Port Physical Level table
        -- This table contains, one entry for each F_Port in the
        -- Fabric Element, the physical level status and parameters
        -- of the F_Ports.

        fcFPortPhysTable OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF FcFPortPhysEntry
            ACCESS      not-accessible
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A table that contains, one entry for each F_Port in the
                Fabric Element, physical level status and parameters of
                the F_Ports.
                [1](16.5, 29.2)"
            ::= { fcFeOp 3 }

        fcFPortPhysEntry OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcFPortPhysEntry
            ACCESS      not-accessible
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "An entry containing physical level status and parameters
                of a F_Port.
                [1](16.5, 29.2)"



Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 18]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


            INDEX { fcFPortPhysFPortIndex }
            ::= { fcFPortPhysTable 1 }

        FcFPortPhysEntry ::=
            SEQUENCE {
                fcFPortPhysFPortIndex
                    FPortIndex,
                fcFPortPhysAdminStatus
                    INTEGER,
                fcFPortPhysOperStatus
                    INTEGER,
                fcFPortPhysLastChange
                    TimeTicks,
                fcFPortPhysRttov
                    MilliSeconds
            }

        fcFPortPhysFPortIndex OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FPortIndex
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A unique value for each F_Port within the Fabric
                Element. This number ranges from 1 to the value of
                fcFeNumFPorts. The value of this object is identical to
                that of the fcFPortConfigFPortIndex. The value remains
                constant for the identified F_Port until the management
                agent is re-initialized."
            ::= { fcFPortPhysEntry 1 }

        fcFPortPhysAdminStatus OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                            online  (1),  -- place port online
                            offline (2),  -- take port offline
                            testing (3)   -- initiate test procedures
                        }
            ACCESS      read-write
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The desired state of the F_Port.  A management station
                may place the F_Port in a desired state by setting this
                object accordingly.  The testing(3) state indicates that
                no operational frames can be passed.  When a Fabric
                Element initializes, all F_Ports start with
                fcFPortPhysAdminStatus in the offline(2) state.  As the
                result of either explicit management action or per
                configuration information accessible by the Fabric
                Element, fcFPortPhysAdminStatus is then changed to



Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 19]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


                either the online(1) or testing(3) states, or remains in
                the offline state.
                [1](16.5)"
                ::= { fcFPortPhysEntry 2 }

            fcFPortPhysOperStatus   OBJECT-TYPE
                SYNTAX      INTEGER {
                                online       (1), -- Login may proceed
                                offline      (2), -- Login cannot proceed
                                testing      (3), -- port is under test
                                link-failure (4)  -- after online or testing
                                -- Other values may be used to indicate
                                -- diagnostic for failed test.
                            }
                ACCESS      read-only
                STATUS      mandatory
                DESCRIPTION
                   "The current operational state of the F_Port.  The
                    testing(3) indicates that no operational frames can
                    be passed.  If fcFPortPhysAdminStatus is offline(2)
                    then fcFPortPhysOperStatus should be offline(2). If
                    fcFPortPhysAdminStatus is changed to online(1) then
                    fcFPortPhysOperStatus should change to online(1) if
                    the F_Port is ready to accept Fabric Login request
                    from the attached N_Port; it should proceed and
                    remain in the link-failure(4) state if and only if
                    there is a fault that prevents it from going to the
                    online(1) state.
                    [1](16.5)"
                    ::= { fcFPortPhysEntry 3 }

                fcFPortPhysLastChange OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX      TimeTicks
                    ACCESS      read-only
                    STATUS      mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                       "The value of sysUpTime at the time the F_Port
                        entered its current operational state."
                    ::= { fcFPortPhysEntry 4 }

                fcFPortPhysRttov OBJECT-TYPE
                    SYNTAX      MilliSeconds
                    ACCESS      read-write
                    STATUS      mandatory
                    DESCRIPTION
                       "The Receiver_Transmitter_Timeout value of the
                        F_Port. This is used by the receiver logic to
                        detect Loss of Synchronization.



Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 20]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


                        [1](29.2.1.1)"
                    ::= { fcFPortPhysEntry 5 }


        -- the Error group
        -- This group consists of tables that contain information about
        -- the various types of errors detected.  The management station
        -- may use the information in this group to determine the
        -- quality of the link between the F_Port and its attached N_Port.
        -- Implementation of this group is optional.

        -- the F_Port Error table
        -- This table contains, one entry for each F_Port in the Fabric
        -- Element, counters recording numbers of errors detected
        -- since the management agent re-initialized.
        -- The first 6 columnar objects after the port index corresponds
        -- to the counters in the Link Error Status Block ([1](29.8)).

        fcFPortErrorTable OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF FcFPortErrorEntry
            ACCESS      not-accessible
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A table that contains, one entry for each F_Port,
                counters that record the numbers of errors detected.
                [1](29)"
            ::= { fcFeError 1 }

        fcFPortErrorEntry OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcFPortErrorEntry
            ACCESS      not-accessible
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "An entry containing error counters of a F_Port.
                [1](29)"
            INDEX { fcFPortErrorFPortIndex }
            ::= { fcFPortErrorTable 1 }


        FcFPortErrorEntry ::=
            SEQUENCE {
                fcFPortErrorFPortIndex
                    FPortIndex,
                fcFPortLinkFailures
                    Counter,
                fcFPortSyncLosses
                    Counter,
                fcFPortSigLosses



Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 21]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


                    Counter,
                fcFPortPrimSeqProtoErrors
                    Counter,
                fcFPortInvalidTxWords
                    Counter,
                fcFPortInvalidCrcs
                    Counter,
                fcFPortDelimiterErrors
                    Counter,
                fcFPortAddressIdErrors
                    Counter,
                fcFPortLinkResetIns
                    Counter,
                fcFPortLinkResetOuts
                    Counter,
                fcFPortOlsIns
                    Counter,
                fcFPortOlsOuts
                    Counter
            }

        fcFPortErrorFPortIndex OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FPortIndex
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A unique value for each F_Port within the Fabric
                Element. This number ranges from 1 to the value of
                fcFeNumFPorts. The value of this object is identical to
                that of the fcFPortConfigFPortIndex. The value remains
                constant for the identified F_Port until the management
                agent is re-initialized.
                [9], [10]"
            ::= { fcFPortErrorEntry 1 }

        fcFPortLinkFailures OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of link failures detected by this F_Port.
                [1](29.8, Figure 82)"
            ::= { fcFPortErrorEntry 2 }








Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 22]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        fcFPortSyncLosses OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of loss of synchronization detected by the
                F_Port.
                [1](12.1.1.2, 29.8)"
            ::= { fcFPortErrorEntry 3 }

        fcFPortSigLosses OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of loss of signal detected by the F_Port.
                [1](12.1.1.2, 29.8)"
            ::= { fcFPortErrorEntry 4 }

        fcFPortPrimSeqProtoErrors OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of primitive sequence protocol errors
                detected by the F_Port.
                [1](29.3.3, 29.8 )"
            ::= { fcFPortErrorEntry 5 }

        fcFPortInvalidTxWords OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of invalid transmission word detected by the
                F_Port.
                [1](29.3.2, 29.8)"
            ::= { fcFPortErrorEntry 6 }

        fcFPortInvalidCrcs OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of invalid CRC detected by this F_Port.
                [1](29.8)"
            ::= { fcFPortErrorEntry 7 }




Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 23]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        fcFPortDelimiterErrors OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Delimiter Errors detected by this F_Port.
                [1](29.9, Table 112)"
            ::= { fcFPortErrorEntry 8 }

        fcFPortAddressIdErrors OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of address identifier errors detected by this
                F_Port.
                [1](29.9, Table 112)"
            ::= { fcFPortErrorEntry 9 }

        fcFPortLinkResetIns OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Link Reset Protocol received by this
                F_Port from the attached N_Port.
                [1](16.6.5, 29.9)"
            ::= { fcFPortErrorEntry 10 }

        fcFPortLinkResetOuts OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Link Reset Protocol issued by this F_Port
                to the attached N_Port.
                [1](16.6.5, 29.9)"
            ::= { fcFPortErrorEntry 11 }

        fcFPortOlsIns OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Offline Sequence received by this F_Port.
                [1](16.4.3)"
            ::= { fcFPortErrorEntry 12 }




Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 24]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        fcFPortOlsOuts OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Offline Sequence issued by this F_Port.
                [1](16.4.3)"
            ::= { fcFPortErrorEntry 13 }



        -- Accounting Groups:
        -- (1) Class 1 Accounting Group,
        -- (2) Class 2 Accounting Group, and
        -- (3) Class 3 Accounting Group.
        -- Each group consists of a table that contains accounting
        -- information for the F_Ports in the Fabric Element.
        -- Implementation of each group is optional.

        -- the Class 1 Accounting table
        -- This table contains, one entry for each F_Port in the Fabric
        -- Element, counters for certain types of events occurred in the
        -- the F_Ports since the the management agent has re-initialized.
        -- Implementation of this group is optional.

        fcFPortC1AcctTable OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF FcFPortC1AcctEntry
            ACCESS      not-accessible
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A table that contains, one entry for each F_Port in the
                Fabric Element, Class 1 accounting information recorded
                since the management agent has re-initialized."
            ::= { fcFeAcct 1 }

        fcFPortC1AcctEntry OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcFPortC1AcctEntry
            ACCESS      not-accessible
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "An entry containing Class 1 accounting information for
                each F_Port."
            INDEX { fcFPortC1AcctFPortIndex }
            ::= { fcFPortC1AcctTable 1 }







Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 25]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        FcFPortC1AcctEntry ::=
            SEQUENCE {
                fcFPortC1AcctFPortIndex
                    FPortIndex,
                fcFPortC1InConnections
                    Counter,
                fcFPortC1OutConnections
                    Counter,
                fcFPortC1FbsyFrames
                    Counter,
                fcFPortC1FrjtFrames
                    Counter,
                fcFPortC1ConnTime
                    Counter,
                fcFPortC1InFrames
                    Counter,
                fcFPortC1OutFrames
                    Counter,
                fcFPortC1InOctets
                    Counter,
                fcFPortC1OutOctets
                    Counter,
                fcFPortC1Discards
                    Counter
            }

        fcFPortC1AcctFPortIndex OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FPortIndex
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A unique value for each F_Port within the Fabric
                Element. This number ranges from 1 to the value of
                fcFeNumFPorts. The value of this object is identical to
                that of the fcFPortConfigFPortIndex. The value remains
                constant for the identified F_Port until the management
                agent is re-initialized."
            ::= { fcFPortC1AcctEntry 1 }

        fcFPortC1InConnections OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Class 1 connections successfully
                established in which the attached N_Port is the source
                of the connect-request.
                [1](28)"



Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 26]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


            ::= { fcFPortC1AcctEntry 2 }

        fcFPortC1OutConnections OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Class 1 connections successfully
                established in which the attached N_Port is the
                destination of the connect-request.
                [1](28)"
            ::= { fcFPortC1AcctEntry 3 }

        fcFPortC1FbsyFrames OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of F_BSY frames generated by this F_Port
                against Class 1 connect-request.
                [1](20.3.3.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortC1AcctEntry 4 }

        fcFPortC1FrjtFrames OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of F_RJT frames generated by this F_Port
                against Class 1 connect-request.
                [1](20.3.3.3)"
            ::= { fcFPortC1AcctEntry 5 }

        fcFPortC1ConnTime OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The cumulative time that this F_Port has been engaged in
                Class 1 connection.  The amount of time of each
                connection is counted in octets from after a connect-
                request has been accepted until the connection is
                disengaged, either by an EOFdt or Link Reset.
                [1](22.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortC1AcctEntry 6 }






Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 27]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        fcFPortC1InFrames OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Class 1 frames (other than Class 1
                connect-request) received by this F_Port from its
                attached N_Port.
                [1](20.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortC1AcctEntry 7 }

        fcFPortC1OutFrames OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Class 1 frames (other than Class 1
                connect-request) delivered through this F_Port to its
                attached N_Port.
                [1](20.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortC1AcctEntry 8 }

        fcFPortC1InOctets OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Class 1 frame octets, including the frame
                delimiters,  received by this F_Port from its attached
                N_Port
                [1](20.1))"
            ::= { fcFPortC1AcctEntry 9 }

        fcFPortC1OutOctets OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Class 1 frame octets, including the frame
                delimiters, delivered through this F_Port its attached
                N_Port.
                [1](20.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortC1AcctEntry 10 }








Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 28]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        fcFPortC1Discards OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Class 1 frames discarded by this F_Port.
                [1](20.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortC1AcctEntry 11 }


        -- the Class 2 Accounting table
        -- This table contains, one entry for each F_Port in the Fabric
        -- Element, counters for certain types of events occurred in the
        -- the F_Ports since the the management agent has re-initialized.
        -- Implementation of this group is optional.

        fcFPortC2AcctTable OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF FcFPortC2AcctEntry
            ACCESS      not-accessible
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A table that contains, one entry for each F_Port in the
                Fabric Element, Class 2 accounting information recorded
                since the management agent has re-initialized."
            ::= { fcFeAcct 2 }

        fcFPortC2AcctEntry OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcFPortC2AcctEntry
            ACCESS      not-accessible
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "An entry containing Class 2 accounting information for a
                F_Port."
            INDEX { fcFPortC2AcctFPortIndex }
            ::= { fcFPortC2AcctTable 1 }

        FcFPortC2AcctEntry ::=
            SEQUENCE {
                fcFPortC2AcctFPortIndex
                    FPortIndex,
                fcFPortC2InFrames
                    Counter,
                fcFPortC2OutFrames
                    Counter,
                fcFPortC2InOctets
                    Counter,
                fcFPortC2OutOctets
                    Counter,



Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 29]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


                fcFPortC2Discards
                    Counter,
                fcFPortC2FbsyFrames
                    Counter,
                fcFPortC2FrjtFrames
                    Counter
            }

        fcFPortC2AcctFPortIndex OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FPortIndex
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A unique value for each F_Port within the Fabric
                Element. This number ranges from 1 to the value of
                fcFeNumFPorts. The value of this object is identical to
                that of the fcFPortConfigFPortIndex. The value remains
                constant for the identified F_Port until the management
                agent is re-initialized."
            ::= { fcFPortC2AcctEntry 1 }

        fcFPortC2InFrames OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Class 2 frames received by this F_Port
                from its attached N_Port.
                [1](20.2)"
            ::= { fcFPortC2AcctEntry 2 }

        fcFPortC2OutFrames OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Class 2 frames delivered through this
                F_Port to its attached N_Port.
                [1](20.2)"
            ::= { fcFPortC2AcctEntry 3 }

        fcFPortC2InOctets OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Class 2 frame octets, including the frame
                delimiters, received by this F_Port from its attached



Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 30]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


                N_Port.
                [1](20.2)"
            ::= { fcFPortC2AcctEntry 4 }

        fcFPortC2OutOctets OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Class 2 frame octets, including the frame
                delimiters, delivered through this F_Port to its
                attached N_Port.
                [1](20.2)"
            ::= { fcFPortC2AcctEntry 5 }

        fcFPortC2Discards OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Class 2 frames discarded by this F_Port.
                [1](22.2)"
            ::= { fcFPortC2AcctEntry 6 }

        fcFPortC2FbsyFrames OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of F_BSY frames generated by this F_Port
                against Class 2 frames.
                [1](20.3.3.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortC2AcctEntry 7 }

        fcFPortC2FrjtFrames OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of F_RJT frames generated by this F_Port
                against Class 2 frames.
                [1](20.3.3.3)"
            ::= { fcFPortC2AcctEntry 8 }

        -- the Class 3 Accounting Group
        -- This table contains, one entry for each F_Port in the Fabric
        -- Element, counters for certain types of events occurred in the
        -- the F_Ports since the management agent has re-initialized.



Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 31]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        -- Implementation of this group is optional.

        fcFPortC3AcctTable OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF FcFPortC3AcctEntry
            ACCESS      not-accessible
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A table that contains, one entry for each F_Port in the
                Fabric Element, Class 3 accounting information recorded
                since the management agent has re-initialized."
            ::= { fcFeAcct 3 }

        fcFPortC3AcctEntry OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcFPortC3AcctEntry
            ACCESS      not-accessible
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "An entry containing Class 3 accounting information for a
                F_Port.
                [1]"
            INDEX { fcFPortC3AcctFPortIndex }
            ::= { fcFPortC3AcctTable 1 }


        FcFPortC3AcctEntry ::=
            SEQUENCE {
                fcFPortC3AcctFPortIndex
                    FPortIndex,
                fcFPortC3InFrames
                    Counter,
                fcFPortC3OutFrames
                    Counter,
                fcFPortC3InOctets
                    Counter,
                fcFPortC3OutOctets
                    Counter,
                fcFPortC3Discards
                    Counter
            }

        fcFPortC3AcctFPortIndex OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FPortIndex
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A unique value for each F_Port within the Fabric
                Element. This number ranges from 1 to the value of
                fcFeNumFPorts. The value of this object is identical to



Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 32]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


                that of the fcFPortConfigFPortIndex. The value remains
                constant for the identified F_Port until the management
                agent is re-initialized."
            ::= { fcFPortC3AcctEntry 1 }

        fcFPortC3InFrames OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Class 3 frames received by this F_Port
                from its attached N_Port.
                [1](22.3)"
            ::= { fcFPortC3AcctEntry 2 }

        fcFPortC3OutFrames OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Class 3 frames delivered through this
                F_Port to its attached N_Port.
                [1](22.3)"
            ::= { fcFPortC3AcctEntry 3 }

        fcFPortC3InOctets OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Class 3 frame octets, including the frame
                delimiters, received by this F_Port from its attached
                N_Port.
                [1](22.3))"
            ::= { fcFPortC3AcctEntry 4 }

        fcFPortC3OutOctets OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Class 3 frame octets, including the frame
                delimiters, delivered through this F_Port to its
                attached N_Port.
                [1](22.3)"
            ::= { fcFPortC3AcctEntry 5 }





Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 33]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        fcFPortC3Discards OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Counter
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The number of Class 3 frames discarded by this F_Port.
                [1](22.3)"
            ::= { fcFPortC3AcctEntry 6 }


        -- The Capability Group - consists of a table describing
        -- information about what each F_Port is inherently capable
        -- of operating or supporting.
        -- A capability may be used, as expressed in its respective
        -- object value in the Configuration group.
        -- Implementation of this group is optional.

        fcFPortCapTable OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      SEQUENCE OF FcFPortCapEntry
            ACCESS      not-accessible
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A table that contains, one entry for each F_Port, the
                capabilities of the port within the Fabric Element.
                [1](23)"
            ::= { fcFeCap 1 }

        fcFPortCapEntry OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcFPortCapEntry
            ACCESS      not-accessible
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "An entry containing the capabilities of a F_Port.
                [1](23)"
            INDEX { fcFPortCapFPortIndex }
            ::= { fcFPortCapTable 1 }


        FcFPortCapEntry ::=
            SEQUENCE {
                fcFPortCapFPortIndex
                    FPortIndex,
                fcFPortCapFcphVersionHigh
                    FcphVersion,
                fcFPortCapFcphVersionLow
                    FcphVersion,
                fcFPortCapBbCreditMax
                    FcBbCredit,



Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 34]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


                fcFPortCapBbCreditMin
                    FcBbCredit,
                fcFPortCapRxDataFieldSizeMax
                    FcRxDataFieldSize,
                fcFPortCapRxDataFieldSizeMin
                    FcRxDataFieldSize,
                fcFPortCapCos
                    FcCosCap,
                fcFPortCapIntermix
                    Boolean,
                fcFPortCapStackedConnMode
                    FcStackedConnMode,
                fcFPortCapClass2SeqDeliv
                    Boolean,
                fcFPortCapClass3SeqDeliv
                    Boolean,
                fcFPortCapHoldTimeMax
                    MicroSeconds,
                fcFPortCapHoldTimeMin
                    MicroSeconds,
                fcFPortCapBaudRates
                    Fc0BaudRateCap,
                fcFPortCapMedia
                    Fc0MediaCap
            }

        fcFPortCapFPortIndex OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FPortIndex
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A unique value for each F_Port within the Fabric
                Element. This number ranges from 1 to the value of
                fcFeNumFPorts. The value of this object is identical to
                that of the fcFPortConfigFPortIndex. The value remains
                constant for the identified F_Port until the management
                agent is re-initialized."
            ::= { fcFPortCapEntry 1 }

        fcFPortCapFcphVersionHigh OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcphVersion
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The highest or most recent version of FC-PH that the
                F_Port is capable of supporting.
                [1](23.7.1.1), [2](10.4.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortCapEntry 2 }



Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 35]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        fcFPortCapFcphVersionLow OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcphVersion
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The lowest or earliest version of FC-PH that the F_Port
                is capable of supporting.
                [1](23.7.1.1), [2](10.4.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortCapEntry 3 }

        fcFPortCapBbCreditMax OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcBbCredit
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The maximum number of receive buffers available for
                holding Class 1 connect-request, Class 2 or Class 3
                frames from the attached N_Port.
                [1](23.7.1.2), [2](10.4.1), [3](15.2)"
            ::= { fcFPortCapEntry 4 }

        fcFPortCapBbCreditMin OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcBbCredit
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The minimum number of receive buffers available for
                holding Class 1 connect-request, Class 2 or Class 3
                frames from the attached N_Port.
                [1](23.7.1.2), [2](10.4.1), [3](15.2)"
            ::= { fcFPortCapEntry 5 }

        fcFPortCapRxDataFieldSizeMax OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcRxDataFieldSize
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The maximum size in bytes of the Data Field in a frame
                that the F_Port is capable of receiving from its
                attached N_Port.
                [1](23.6.2.4)"
            ::= { fcFPortCapEntry 6 }









Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 36]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        fcFPortCapRxDataFieldSizeMin OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcRxDataFieldSize
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The minimum size in bytes of the Data Field in a frame
                that the F_Port is capable of receiving from its
                attached N_Port.
                [1](23.6.2.4)"
            ::= { fcFPortCapEntry 7 }

        fcFPortCapCos OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcCosCap
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A value indicating the set of Classes of Service that
                the F_Port is capable of supporting.
                [1](23.7.4.1), [2](Table 10.2), [3](15.3.5.1, 15.3.5.2)"

            ::= { fcFPortCapEntry 8 }

        fcFPortCapIntermix OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Boolean
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A flag indicating whether or not the F_Port is capable
                of supporting the intermixing of Class 2 and Class 3
                frames during a Class 1 connection. This flag is only
                valid if the port is capable of supporting Class 1
                service.
                [1](23.7.4.2)"
            ::= { fcFPortCapEntry 9 }

        fcFPortCapStackedConnMode OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      FcStackedConnMode
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A value indicating the mode of Stacked Connect request
                that the F_Port is capable of supporting.
                [1](23.7.4.2)"
            ::= { fcFPortCapEntry 10 }







Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 37]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        fcFPortCapClass2SeqDeliv OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Boolean
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A flag indicating whether or not the F_Port is capable
                of supporting Class 2 Sequential Delivery.
                [1](23.7.4.2)"
            ::= { fcFPortCapEntry 11 }

        fcFPortCapClass3SeqDeliv OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Boolean
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A flag indicating whether or not the F_Port is capable
                of supporting Class 3 Sequential Delivery.
                [1](23.7.4.2)"
            ::= { fcFPortCapEntry 12 }

        fcFPortCapHoldTimeMax OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      MicroSeconds
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The maximum holding time (in microseconds) that the
                F_Port is capable of supporting."
            ::= { fcFPortCapEntry 13 }

        fcFPortCapHoldTimeMin OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      MicroSeconds
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "The minimum holding time (in microseconds) that the
                F_Port is capable of supporting."
            ::= { fcFPortCapEntry 14 }

        fcFPortCapBaudRates OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Fc0BaudRateCap
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A value indicating the set of baud rates that the F_Port
                is capable of supporting.
                [1](5.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortCapEntry 15 }




Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 38]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


        fcFPortCapMedia OBJECT-TYPE
            SYNTAX      Fc0MediaCap
            ACCESS      read-only
            STATUS      mandatory
            DESCRIPTION
               "A value indicating the set of media that the F_Port is
                capable of supporting.
                [1](5.1)"
            ::= { fcFPortCapEntry 16 }

        END
        -- End of Object Definitions

4. Acknowledgements

   The editor would like to thank the following individuals for their
   assistance and constructive comments:

                Yakov Rekhter, IBM
                Martin Sachs, IBM
                Dan Eisenhauer, IBM
                Beth Vanderbeck, IBM
                Carl Zeitler, IBM
                Paul Griffiths, IBM
                KC Chennappan, IBM
                Jessie Haug, IBM
                Bob Cornelius, ANCOR
                Lansing Sloan, LLNL
                Paul Rupert, LLNL
                Rich Taborak, Amdahl
                Steve Wilson, Amdahl
                Jerry Rouse, IBM
                Dal Allan, ENDL
                Hubert Huot, IBM
                Venkat Rao, HP
                Amir Artsi, RADWAY International Ltd.
                Bent Stoevhase, HPCL

5. References

[1] Fibre Channel Physical and Signaling Interface (FC-PH), Rev 4.2,
    October 8, 1993. Working Draft Proposed American National Standard
    for Information Systems, X3.230-199x, Computer and Business
    Equipment Manufacturers Association, Washington, DC.

[2] Fibre Channel Fabric Requirements (FC-FG), Rev 2.2, April 18, 1994.
    Working Draft Proposed American National Standard for Information
    Systems, X3T9.3/958D, Computer and Business Equipment Manufacturers



Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 39]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


    Association, Washington, DC.

[3] Fibre Channel Cross-point Switched Fabric Requirements (FC-XS), Rev
    1.30, February, 1994. Working Draft Proposed American National
    Standard for Information Systems, X3T9.3/959D, Computer and Business
    Equipment Manufacturers Association, Washington, DC.

[4] Sachs, M., "Fibre Channel", chapter 5 in "High Performance Networks,
    Technology and Protocols, ed. Ahmed N. Tantawy, Kluwer Academic
    Publishers, Boston, MA, 1994, p. 109ff.

[5] Sachs, M., "An FCS Information Taxonomy", FCS Working Group Document
    FC-FG/92-025. IBM Research, T.J. Watson Center, P.O. Box 704,
    Yorktown Heights, NY 10598, July 1992.

[6] Rose M., and K. McCloghrie, "Structure and Identification of
    Management Information for TCP/IP-based internets", RFC 1155,
    Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems, May 1990.

[7] Rose, M., and K. McCloghrie, Editors, "Concise MIB Definitions", RFC
    1212, Performance Systems International, Hughes LAN Systems, March
    1991.

[8] Case, J., Fedor, M., Schoffstall, M., and J. Davin, "Simple Network
    Management Protocol", RFC 1157, SNMP Research, Performance Systems
    International, Performance Systems International, MIT Laboratory for
    Computer Science, May 1990.

[9] McCloghrie K., and M. Rose, Editors, "Management Information Base
    for Network Management of TCP/IP-based internets", RFC 1213,
    Performance Systems International, March 1991.

[10] Chu, J.Y., "Definitions of Managed Objects for the Node in Fibre
    Channel Standard", Internet draft, Version 1.4, February 25, 1994.

[11] McCloghrie K., and F. Kastenholz, Editors, "Evolution of the
    Interfaces Group of MIB-II", RFC 1573, Hughes LAN Systems, FTP
    Software, January 1994.

[12] Fibre Channel Arbitrated Loop (FC-AL), Rev 4.2, March 11, 1994.
    Working Draft Proposed American National Standard for Information
    Systems, X3T11/960D, Computer and Business Equipment Manufacturers
    Association, Washington, DC.

6. Security Considerations

   Security issues are not discussed in this memo.




Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 40]

INTERNET DRAFT           FC Fabric Element MIB              23 June 1994


Editors' Addresses

   John Chu                           Kha Sin Teow
   IBM Corp.                          HPCL - Canadian Networks Operation
   P.O. Box 218                       111 Gordon Baker Road
   Yorktown Heights, NY 10598         North York, Ontario M2H 3R1
   U.S.A.                             Canada

   Phone: +1 914 945 3156             (416)496-6552
   Email: jychu@watson.ibm.com        khasin@northyork.hp.com









































Expiration Date December 1994                                  [Page 41]


