VPIM Working Group                                       Glenn Parsons
Internet Draft                                         Nortel Networks
Document: <draft-ietf-vpim-address-03.txt>               June 28, 2002
Category: Standards Track



         VPIM (Voice Profile for Internet Mail) Addressing


Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all 
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task 
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups. Note that other 
groups may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts. 
Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months 
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any 
time. It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as reference 
material or to cite them other than as "work in progress." 
The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at 
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt 
The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at 
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

Abstract

This document lists the various VPIM (Voice Profile for Internet Mail) 
email address formats that are currently in common use and defines 
several new address formats for special case usage.   Requirements are 
imposed on the formats of addresses used in VPIM submission mode.

Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2002).  All Rights Reserved.



















 Parsons                   Expires: 28/01/03                         1
                            VPIM Addressing                  June 2002



Table of Contents


1. Introduction.....................................................3
2. Conventions used in this document................................3
3. VPIM v2 Addressing...............................................3
4. VPIM Addressing..................................................4
   4.1 VPIM Gateways................................................4
   4.2 VPIM Submission LHS..........................................4
   4.3 VPIM Submission Addresses....................................7
5. Security Considerations..........................................8
6. IANA Consideration...............................................9
   6.1: IANA Registration form for new value of GSTN address
        service-selector "VPIM".....................................9
   6.2: IANA Registration form for new value of GSTN address
        service-selector "VOICE"...................................10
   6.3: IANA Registration form for new value of GSTN address
        service-selector "AMIS"....................................10
   6.4: IANA Registration form for new value of GSTN address
        qualif-type1 keyword and value "SYSNUM"....................11
   6.5: IANA Registration form for new value of GSTN address 
        qualif-type1 keyword and value "EXT".......................12
   6.6: IANA Registration form for new value of GSTN address 
        qualif-type1 keyword and value "DL"........................13
7. References......................................................12
   7.1 Normative References........................................14
   7.1 Non-Normative References....................................14
8. Author's Address................................................15
9. Full Copyright Statement........................................15


      




















 Parsons                   Expires: 28/01/03                         2
                            VPIM Addressing                  June 2002


1. Introduction

This document lists the various VPIM email address formats that are 
currently in common use and defines several new address formats for 
special case usage.   Requirements are imposed on the formats of 
addresses used in VPIM submission mode
       
[VPIM2] does not place any restrictions on the email address format. 
However, it does recommend the use of a numeric LHS since many legacy 
voice mail systems only use digits to identify mailboxes. Further, it 
recommends a structure to handle private, international and 
extensions. The private format has become deployed in most existing 
VPIM v2 systems, further some systems will only accept messages from 
addresses with a numeric LHS. 

[IVM] does not describe addressing at all. The LHS format is left to 
the discretion of the mailbox owner. However, it is useful in some 
cases (like submission or tunneling) to specify a LHS format. A format 
based on GSTN addressing [GSTN] is presented. 

This document defines the various recipient (i.e., TO) addresses for 
VPIM and IVM messages.


2. Conventions used in this document

The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT", 
"SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this 
document are to be interpreted as described in RFC-2119.

"LHS" as used in this document is to be interpreted as the left side 
of the "@" in an email address.  It is defined as "local-part" in RFC-
822.

"RHS" as used in this document is to be interpreted as the right side 
of the "@" in an email address.  It is defined as "domain" in RFC-822.

3. VPIM v2 Addressing

This is defined in section 4.2.1 of [VPIM2] & [VPIMV2R2].  Of the four 
groups of addresses defined, the mailbox number format is the most 
commonly used in VPIM v2 systems.  

	Example:  6137637582@nortelnetworks.com









 Parsons                   Expires: 28/01/03                         3
                            VPIM Addressing                  June 2002


4. VPIM Addressing

VPIM places no restrictions on the form of the Internet address. VPIM 
systems must be capable of receiving an arbitrary email address and 
generating a reply to that address. No inferences about the structure 
of the local part (LHS) should be necessary. 
       
Recipients email addresses must be created in a form compatible with 
the recipients system and consistent with the address entry 
capabilities of a telephone user interface.

The following sections use formal syntax compliant with RFC 2234, 
"Augmented BNF for Syntax Specifications: ABNF".


4.1 VPIM Gateways  
       
A gateway translates between dissimilar environments.  For VPIM, a
gateway connects between the VPIM profile of Internet mail and other 
voice mail networking protocols (including voice call answer and 
delivery).  These may be proprietary or standard (like AMIS [AMIS-A]). 
VPIM gateways typically service multiple voice mail users or, in the 
case of call answer, service only one. In the former case, they serve 
as a classic "mail transfer agent" (MTA) and in the latter as a 
classic "mail user agent" (UA).

An onramp is a gateway which connects from another voice mail 
networking protocl to VPIM.  An offramp is a gateway which connects 
from VPIM to another voice mail networking protocol. Behavior of 
onramps and offramps is out of scope for this specification.

This specification describes the VPIM service portion of onramp and 
offramp addressing.
  
       
4.2 VPIM Submission LHS  
       
Limited capability voice mail machines may send messages by default to 
an external message submission gateway.  These gateways will convert 
the unresolved telephone number of the recipient into a legitimate 
email address.  Messages requiring address resolution must be sent to 
a submission system which will convert the submitted address into the 
route-able email address.  

Additionally, limited capability email systems may send messages to a 
VPIM onramp system indicated on the RHS. The LHS would indicate that 
the message is to be sent as a VPIM message to the telephone number 
indicated. In this case, address and message translation is performed 
by the gateway. 



     
 Parsons                   Expires: 28/01/03                         4
                            VPIM Addressing                  June 2002

  
Telephone numbers sent in a VPIM submission mode MUST be sent in one 
of the following forms. 
       
This is based on the format defined in [GSTN-ADDR] and extensions in 
[GSTN]. 

       
4.2.1 The VPIM address 

For voice messages that are intended to be sent as VPIM messages the 
service-selector element is defined to be:

vpim-service-selector = "VPIM" 

The resultant vpim-address and vpim-mbox are formally 
       
vpim-address = vpim-mbox 
              [ pstn-recipient ] 
       
vpim-mbox = [ "VPIM=" ] ( global-phone / local-phone ) 
            [ sub-addr-spec ext-addr-spec dl-addr-spec] 

dl-addr-spec = "/DL=" sub-addr 
                      	;note that "/DL=" is case INSENSITIVE             
ext-addr-spec = [ ext-sep sub-addr ] 
ext-sep = ( "/EXT=" / "+" ) 
                      ; note that "/EXT=" is case INSENSITIVE 
                      ; "+" is used for compatibility with current 
                      ; VPIM v2 addressing 
       
For clarity, here is an example of a very simple vpim-mbox: 
     VPIM=6137637582 

The extension syntax, that is a phone number followed by "/EXT=" 
defining the extension, would be used where the mailbox does not have 
a direct dial number associated with it (e.g., typically behind a non-
ISDN PBX).   For example:

     VPIM=7035255550/EXT=227

The distribution list syntax, that is a phone number followed by 
"/DL=" defining the list, would be used to refer to a distribution 
list associated with the phone number (with or without an extension).  
For example:


     VPIM=+14165977230/DL=93 

  



  
 Parsons                   Expires: 28/01/03                         5
                            VPIM Addressing                  June 2002
     
       
4.2.2 The Voice address 
       
For voice messages that are intended to be sent as a voice outdialing 
at the destination system, the service-selector element is defined to 
be:      

voice-service-selector = "VOICE" 
       
The resultant voice-address and voice-mbox are formally 
       
voice-address = voice-mbox 
               [ pstn-recipient ] 
       
voice-mbox = "VOICE=" ( global-phone / local-phone ) 
                   [ sub-addr spec ] [post-sep post-dial] 
       
For more clarity, here is an example of a very simple voice-mbox: 
       
VOICE=+3940226338 
       
       
4.2.3 The AMIS address 
       
For voice messages that are intended to be sent as AMIS (Audio 
Messaging Interchange Specification) voice mail messages (as defined 
in [AMIS-A] & [AMIS-D]), the service-selector element is defined to 
be:  

amis-service-selector = "AMIS" 
       
The resultant amis-address and amis-mbox are formally 
       
amis-address = amis-mbox 
      
amis-mbox = "AMIS=" amis-mailbox  
            [ "/SYSNUM=" amis-sysnum ] 
            ; note that "/SYSNUM=" is case INSENSITIVE 
       
amis-mailbox = ( amis-a / amis-d ) 
       
amis-a = amis-a-number 
       
amis-d = [ amis-mailbox-numberplan ][ "+" ] amis-mailbox-id  
            [ "+" ] [ amis-mailbox-extension ] 
     ; The "+" separators are used to be compatible  
            ; the X.400 AMIS-D mailbox definition --  
            ; if more than one element is present, both 
            ; "+" must appear.  Note also that the total 
            ; length of this field is restricted to 32 
            ; characters by AMIS-D. 
       

       
 Parsons                   Expires: 28/01/03                         6
                            VPIM Addressing                  June 2002


amis-mailbox-numberplan = 1*VCHAR 
       
amis-mailbox-id = 1*16(VCHAR) 
       
amis-mailbox-extension = 1*VCHAR 
       
amis-sysnum =  amis-a-number 
       
amis-a-number = ( amis-PSTN-number / amis-private-number ) 
       
amis-PSTN-number = int-country-code "+" 
                   area-code "+" 
                   local-number "+" 
                   ; This is in agreement with ITU [E.164] 
                   ; specification and per [AMIS-A] - the  
                   ; maximum length is 15 numeric digits.  
                   ; The "+" separators are used to be  
                   ; compatible with the X.400 AMIS-D  
                   ; mailbox definition and replace the '#'  
                   ; separators of AMIS-A 
   
amis-private-number = "0++" local-number "+" 
                   ; [AMIS-A] indicates that maximum permitted 
                   ; length of the private number is 14  
                   ; digits 
       
int-country-code = 1*4(DIGIT) 
             
area-code = 1*(DIGIT) 
             
local-number = 1*(DIGIT) 
       
For more clarity, here is an example of a simple AMIS-A amis-mbox: 
       
AMIS=+1/401+3278144+/SYSNUM=1+401+3279542+ 

       
4.2.4 The fax address 
       
Fax addresses used in VPIM are formatted as defined in [FAX-
ADDR],section 2.


4.3 VPIM Submission Addresses 
          
Based on [GSTN-ADDR], these are the resultant email addresses for the 
LHS presented above.  VPIM and IVM  systems that support submission 
MUST accept, translate (if necessary), and forward messages sent to 
these addresses.  
            
       

       
 Parsons                   Expires: 28/01/03                         7
                            VPIM Addressing                  June 2002


4.3.1 The vpim-email 
           
The vpim-email element is a specific version of pstn-email for VPIM 
over the Internet e-mail transport system, where the service-selector 
distinction is set to "VPIM".

vpim-email =  ["/"] vpim-address ["/"] "@" mta-I-pstn 
            
In this case the mta-I-pstn will usually point to a VPIM capable   
messaging system where the attached message will be delivered 
properly. 
            
       
4.3.2 The voice-email 
           
The voice-email element is a specific version of pstn-email for the 
voice outdialing over the Internet e-mail transport system, where the 
service-selector distinction is set to "VOICE". 

voice-email =  ["/"] voice-address ["/"] "@" mta-I-pstn 
            
In this case the mta-I-pstn will usually point to a device that will 
perform an outdial, that is for example, make a telephone call to the 
specified number and play a voice attachment. 
            
       
4.3.3 The amis-email 
       
The amis-email element is a specific version of pstn-email for the 
AMIS over the Internet e-mail transport system, where the service-
selector distinction is set to "AMIS". 

amis-email =  ["/"] amis-address ["/"] "@" mta-I-pstn 
            
In this case the mta-I-pstn will usually point to a device that acts 
as a gateway to an AMIS network where the attached voice message will 
be delivered properly.             
       

4.3.4 The fax-email 
            
Fax email addresses used in VPIM are formatted as defined in [FAX-
ADDR], section 4.



5. Security Considerations

Most security considerations are already identified in [VPIM2] and 
[IVM]. 



 Parsons                   Expires: 28/01/03                         8
                            VPIM Addressing                  June 2002


An additional concern would be that the sender must trust and also be 
aware of the policies of the submission MTA to which the message is 
submitted.  This is because, that MTA will make the determination of 
where the final destination is and how it will be delivered based on 
the VPIM submission LHS. 

Submission MTAs should take care to not blindly place outdial calls to 
any number submitted (e.g., international numbers or "1-900" numbers).  
Ideally, senders should be authenticated to confirm their outdialing 
privileges.


6. IANA Considerations


6.1: IANA Registration form for new value of GSTN address 
service-selector "VPIM" 
       
To: IANA@iana.org 
        
Subject: Registration of new values for the GSTN address  
   service-selector specifier "VPIM" 
              
service-selector name: 
       
   VPIM 
      
Description of Use: 
       
   VPIM - specify that the GSTN address refers to a voice 
   mailbox that is intended to accept a VPIM message. 
       
   For a complete description refer to "VPIM Addressing", 
   draft-ietf-vpim-address-03.txt. 
       
Security Considerations: 
       
   See the Security Consideration section of "VPIM 
   Addressing", draft-ietf-vpim-address-03.txt. 
       
Person & email address to contact for further information: 
       
   Glenn W. Parsons 
   Nortel Networks 
   P.0. Box 3511 Station C 
   Ottawa, On  K1Y 4H7 
   Canada 
   Phone: +1-613-763-7582 
   Fax  : +1-613-763-2697
   Email: gparsons@nortelnetworks.com 
       


 Parsons                   Expires: 28/01/03                         9
                            VPIM Addressing                  June 2002


6.2: IANA Registration form for new value of GSTN address 
service-selector "VOICE" 
       
To: IANA@iana.org 
        
Subject: Registration of new values for the GSTN address  
         service-selector specifier "VOICE" 
              
service-selector name: 
       
   VOICE 
       
Description of Use: 
       
   VOICE - specify that the GSTN address refers to a voice 
   device that is intended to be sent a voice message via an 
   'outdialing'. 
       
For a complete description refer to "VPIM Addressing", 
draft-ietf-vpim-address-03.txt. 
       
Security Considerations: 
       
See the Security Consideration section of "VPIM 
Addressing", draft-ietf-vpim-address-03.txt. 
       
Person & email address to contact for further information: 
       
   Glenn W. Parsons 
   Nortel Networks 
   P.0. Box 3511 Station C 
   Ottawa, On  K1Y 4H7 
   Canada 
   Phone: +1-613-763-7582 
   Fax  : +1-613-763-2697
   Email: gparsons@nortelnetworks.com 


6.3: IANA Registration form for new value of GSTN address 
service-selector "AMIS" 
       
To: IANA@iana.org 
        
Subject: Registration of new values for the GSTN address  
         service-selector specifier "AMIS" 
              
service-selector name: 
       
   AMIS 
       



 Parsons                   Expires: 28/01/03                        10
                            VPIM Addressing                  June 2002


Description of Use: 
       
   AMIS - specify that the GSTN address refers to a voice 
   mailbox that is intended to be sent an AMIS (Audio 
   Messaging Interchange Specification) voice mail message. 
      
For a complete description refer to "VPIM Addressing", 
draft-ietf-vpim-address-03.txt. 
       
Security Considerations: 

See the Security Consideration section of "VPIM 
Addressing", draft-ietf-vpim-address-03.txt. 
       
Person & email address to contact for further information: 
       
   Glenn W. Parsons 
   Nortel Networks 
   P.0. Box 3511 Station C 
   Ottawa, On  K1Y 4H7 
   Canada 
   Phone: +1-613-763-7582 
   Fax  : +1-613-763-2697
   Email: gparsons@nortelnetworks.com

   
6.4: IANA Registration form for new value of GSTN address 
qualif-type1 keyword and value "SYSNUM" 
       
To: IANA@iana.org  
       
Subject: Registration of new values for the GSTN address  
         qualif-type1 element "sysnum" 
              
qualif-type1 "keyword" name: 
       
   sysnum 
       
qualif-type1 "value" ABNF definition: 
       
   sysnum = 1*(DIGIT / "+") 
      
Description of Use: 
       
   sysnum is used to specify the numeric optional AMIS sub-
   address element as described in "VPIM Addressing", 
   draft-ietf-vpim-address-03.txt. 
       
Use Restriction: 
       
   The use of "SYSNUM" is restricted to "AMIS" service-
   selector, is it has no meaning outside the AMIS service. 
   
 Parsons                   Expires: 28/01/03                        11
                            VPIM Addressing                  June 2002


Security Considerations: 
      
   See the Security Consideration section of "VPIM 
   Addressing", draft-ietf-vpim-address-03.txt. 
       
Person & email address to contact for further information: 
             
   Glenn W. Parsons 
   Nortel Networks 
   P.0. Box 3511 Station C 
   Ottawa, On  K1Y 4H7 
   Canada 
   Phone: +1-613-763-7582 
   Fax  : +1-613-763-2697
   Email: gparsons@nortelnetworks.com


6.5: IANA Registration form for new value of GSTN address qualif-type1 
keyword and value "EXT" 
       
To: IANA@iana.org  
       
Subject: Registration of new values for the GSTN address  
         qualif-type1 element "EXT" 
              
qualif-type1 "keyword" name: 
       
   ext 
       
qualif-type1 "value" ABNF definition: 
       
   ext = 1*(DIGIT) 
      
Description of Use: 
       
   EXT is used to specify the numeric optional extension
   That idenitifies a particular VPIM mailbox as 
   described in "VPIM Addressing", 
   draft-ietf-vpim-address-03.txt. 
       
Use Restriction: 
       
   The use of "EXT" is intended for the "VPIM" service-
   selector, however is may have meaning and be used outside
   the VPIM service. 
   
Security Considerations: 
      
   See the Security Consideration section of "VPIM 
   Addressing", draft-ietf-vpim-address-03.txt. 
       

       
 Parsons                   Expires: 28/01/03                        12
                            VPIM Addressing                  June 2002


Person & email address to contact for further information: 
             
   Glenn W. Parsons 
   Nortel Networks 
   P.0. Box 3511 Station C 
   Ottawa, On  K1Y 4H7 
   Canada 
   Phone: +1-613-763-7582 
   Fax  : +1-613-763-2697
   Email: gparsons@nortelnetworks.com

   
6.6: IANA Registration form for new value of GSTN address qualif-type1 
keyword and value "DL" 
       
To: IANA@iana.org  
       
Subject: Registration of new values for the GSTN address  
         qualif-type1 element "DL" 
              
qualif-type1 "keyword" name: 
       
   dl 
       
qualif-type1 "value" ABNF definition: 
       
   dl = 1*(DIGIT) 
      
Description of Use: 
       
   DL is used to specify the numeric optional personal
   Distribution list for a particular VPIM mailbox as 
   described in "VPIM Addressing", 
   draft-ietf-vpim-address-03.txt. 
       
Use Restriction: 
       
   The use of "DL" is intended for the "VPIM" service-
   selector, however is may have meaning and be used outside
   the VPIM service. 
   
Security Considerations: 
      
   See the Security Consideration section of "VPIM 
   Addressing", draft-ietf-vpim-address-03.txt. 
  
  






 Parsons                   Expires: 28/01/03                        13
                            VPIM Addressing                  June 2002

     
Person & email address to contact for further information: 
             
   Glenn W. Parsons 
   Nortel Networks 
   P.0. Box 3511 Station C 
   Ottawa, On  K1Y 4H7 
   Canada 
   Phone: +1-613-763-7582 
   Fax  : +1-613-763-2697
   Email: gparsons@nortelnetworks.com



7. References

7.1 Normative References
   
[GSTN] Allocchio, C., "GSTN Address Element Extensions in e-mail 
Services", RFC 2846, June 2000. 
            
[RFC822] Crocker, D., "Standard for the Format of ARPA Internet Text 
Messages", STD 11, RFC 822, UDEL, August 1982. 
            
[VPIM2] Vaudreuil, Greg, Parsons, Glenn, "Voice Profile for Internet 
Mail, Version 2", RFC 2421, September 1998.

[VPIMV2R2] Vaudreuil, Greg, Parsons, Glenn, "Voice Profile for 
Internet Mail, version 2", <draft-ietf-vpim-vpimv2r2-05.txt>, February 
2002.  
            
[FAX-ADDR] Allocchio, C., "Minimal FAX address format in Internet 
Mail", RFC 3192 October 2001. 
            
[GSTN-ADDR] Allocchio, C., "Minimal GSTN address format in Internet 
Mail", RFC 3191 October 2001.


7.1 Non-Normative References

[AMIS-A] Audio Messaging Interchange Specifications (AMIS) - Analog 
Protocol Version 1, Issue 2, February 1992. 
            
[AMIS-D] Audio Messaging Interchange Specifications (AMIS) - Digital 
Protocol Version 1, Issue 3, August 1993. 

[E.164] CCITT Recommendation E.164 (1991), Telephone Network and ISDN 
Operation, Numbering, Routing and  Mobile Service - Numbering Plan for 
the ISDN Era.

[IVM] McRae, Stuart, Parsons, Glenn, "Internet Voice Mail", <draft-
ietf-ivm-04.txt>, June 2002.


 Parsons                   Expires: 28/01/03                        14
                            VPIM Addressing                  June 2002


8. Author's Address

Glenn W. Parsons
Nortel Networks
Ottawa, ON K1Y 4H7 
Phone: +1-613-763-7582 
Fax  : +1-613-967-5060 
Email: gparsons@nortelnetworks.com



9. Full Copyright Statement

Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2002).  All Rights Reserved.

This document and translations of it may be copied and furnished to 
others, and derivative works that comment on or otherwise explain it 
or assist in its implementation may be prepared, copied, published and 
distributed, in whole or in part, without restriction of any kind, 
provided that the above copyright notice and this paragraph are 
included on all such copies and derivative works.  However, this 
document itself may not be modified in any way, such as by removing 
the copyright notice or references to the Internet Society or other 
Internet organizations, except as needed for the purpose of developing 
Internet standards in which case the procedures for copyrights defined 
in the Internet Standards process must be followed, or as required to 
translate it into languages other than English.

The limited permissions granted above are perpetual and will not be 
revoked by the Internet Society or its successors or assigns.

This document and the information contained herein is provided on an 
"AS IS" basis and THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET ENGINEERING 
TASK FORCE DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT 
NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE INFORMATION HEREIN 
WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF 
MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.
















 Parsons                   Expires: 28/01/03                        15
