Network Working Group                                    Reinaldo Penno 
INTERNET DRAFT                                          Nortel Networks 
Expires May 2002                                           Keyur Parikh 
                                                        Megisto Systems
                                                                 Ly Loi
                                                         Tahoe Networks
                                                              Leo Huber
                                                       Extreme Networks
                                                             Vipin Jain
                                                          Pipal Systems
                                                          Mark Townsley
                                                          Cisco Systems
                                                          February 2002

                     Fail Over extensions for L2TP
                     draft-ietf-l2tpext-failover-00.txt

              

                          Status of this Memo

   This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with 
   all provisions of Section 10 of RFC 2026.  Internet-Drafts are
   working documents of the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF), its
   areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups may also
   distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six     
   Months and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents 
   at any time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet- Drafts as 
   reference material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.


Abstract

L2TP is a connection-oriented protocol that has shared state between 
active endpoints. Some of this shared state is vital for operation but 
may be rather volatile in nature, such as packet sequence numbers used 
on the L2TP Control Connection. When failure of one side of a control
connection occurs, a new control connection is created and associated 
with the old connection by exchanging information about the old 
connection. Such a mechanism is not intended as a replacement for an 
active fail over with some mirrored connection states, but as an aid 
just for those parameters that are particularly difficult to have 
immediately available. Protocol extensions to L2TP defined in this 
document are intended to facilitate state recovery, providing 
additional resiliency in an L2TP network and improving a remote 
system's layer 2 connectivity.
 


Jain, et al.                   expires Aug 2002                [Page 1]


Internet-Draft      draft-ietf-l2tpext-failover-00.txt   February 2002



Table of Contents

Status of this Memo ..............................................    1
   1.0 Introduction ..............................................    2
   2.0 Failover Protocol .........................................    3
   2.1 Tunnel Establishement .....................................    4
   2.2 Session Establishement ....................................    4
   2.3 Post Failure Operation ....................................    4
      2.3.1 Failed Endpoint's Behavior ...........................    4
      2.3.2 Failed Endpoint's Peer's Behavior ....................    5
      2.3.3 Session State Inconsistency Between Peers ............    5
      2.3.4 Data Plane Behavior ..................................    5
   3.0 Failover AVPs .............................................    6
   3.1 Failover Initiate Capability AVP ..........................    6
   3.2 Failover Response Capability AVP ..........................    6
   3.3 Old Tunnel Id AVP .........................................    6
   3.4 Old Local Tunnel Id AVP ...................................    7
   4.0 IANA Considerations .......................................    7
   5.0 Security Considerations ...................................    8
   6.0 References ................................................    8
   7.0 Authors' Addresses ........................................    8


Terminology

Endpoint: An L2TP control connection endpoint, either LAC or LNS. 

Active Endpoint: An endpoint that is currently providing service.

Backup Endpoint: A redundant endpoint standing by for the active 
endpoint. 

Failover: The action of a Backup Endpoint taking over the service of an 
Active Endpoint. This could be due to administrative action or failure 
of the Active Endpoint. 



1.0 Introduction

The goal of this draft is to aid the overall resiliency of an L2TP 
endpoint by introducing extensions to RFC 2661 [L2TP] that will 
minimize the recovery time of the L2TP layer after a failover, while 
minimizing the impact on its performance. Therefore it is assumed that 
the endpoint's overall architecture is also supportive in the 
resiliency effort. 




Jain, et al.                   expires Aug 2002                [Page 2]


Internet-Draft      draft-ietf-l2tpext-failover-00.txt   February 2001



To ensure proper operation of a L2TP endpoint after a failover, the 
associated information of the tunnels and sessions between them must be 
correct and consistent. This includes both the configured and dynamic 
information. The configured information is assumed to be correct and 
consistent after a failover, otherwise the tunnels and sessions would 
not have been setup in the first place. The dynamic information, which 
is also referred to as stateful information, changes with the 
processing of tunnel's control and data packets. Currently, the only 
such information that is essential to the tunnel's operation is its 
sequence numbers. For the tunnel control channel, the inconsistencies 
in its sequence numbers can result in the termination of the entire 
tunnel. For tunnel sessions, the inconsistency in its sequence, when 
used, can cause massive data loss thus giving perception of "service 
loss" to the user.

Thus, an optimal resilient architecture that aims to minimize  "service 
loss" after a failover must make provision for the tunnel's essential 
stateful information - i.e. its sequence numbers. Currently, there are 
two options available: the first option is to ensure that the backup 
endpoint is in complete sync with the active with respect to the 
control and data sessions sequence numbers. The other option is to 
simply re-establish all the tunnels and its sessions after a failover. 
The drawback of the first option is that it adds significant 
performance and complexity impact to the endpoint's architecture, 
especially as tunnel and session aggregation increases. The drawback of 
the second option is that it increases the "service loss"  time, 
especially as the architecture scales.

To alleviate the above-mentioned drawbacks of the current options, this 
draft introduces a mechanism to bring the dynamic stateful information 
of a tunnel to correct and consistent state after a failure. Proposed 
mechanism, currently, defines the recovery of tunnels and sessions that 
were in established state prior to the failure. 


2.0 Failover Protocol

The failover protocol allows an endpoint to specify its failover 
capabilities during tunnel establishment. Based on failover 
capabilities, two endpoints learn if a tunnel and its sessions support 
recovery. Upon failure, a new tunnel is initiated for every old tunnel 
that needs recovery. The new tunnel includes a new AVP, the Old 
Tunnel ID AVP (Section 3.3). This AVP identifies the old tunnel. Upon 
getting this AVP, an endpoint learns that its peer has failed and would 
like to recover the identified tunnel. After the new tunnel is 
established, it assumes all active sessions and tunnel characteristics 
of the previous tunnel. Normal tunnel activity is resumed then.



Jain, et al.                   expires Aug 2002                [Page 3]


Internet-Draft      draft-ietf-l2tpext-failover-00.txt   February 2002




2.1 Tunnel Establishment

Tunnel establishment procedures are same as defined by [L2TP], except 
when establishing a tunnel, endpoints exchange their failover 
capabilities using Failover Capability Initiate AVP and Failover 
Capability Response AVP in SCCRQ and SCCRP control messages.


2.2 Session Establishment

There is no change to how [L2TP] describes session establishment and 
termination procedure.


2.3 Post Failure Operation 

This section describes the behavior of a failed endpoint and its peer, 
should there be failure. Peers must avoid sending any control packets 
over the old tunnel that is being synchronized. Only those tunnels, 
which exchanged failover capabilities are allowed to use failover
protocol. 


2.3.1. Failed Endpoint's Behavior 

It establishes a new tunnel as specified in [L2TP] with following 
considerations:

o  SCCRQ and SCCCN messages SHOULD avoid using new AVPs that might 
   impact the establishment of the new tunnel or change its 
   characteristics.

o  In addition to the AVPs present in the old tunnel, it MUST include
   the Old Tunnel Id AVP and Old Local Tunnel Id AVP, as defined in 
   section 3.0, in the new SCCRQ. 

o  If the new tunnel is rejected then it MUST assume that recovery has 
   failed and should clear the tunnel on its end.

o  Once failover is detected, control packets received prior to  
   synchronization of the tunnel SHOULD be ignored. The tunnel is said 
   to be in synchronized state once the establishment process is 
   complete.






Jain, et al.                   expires Aug 2002                [Page 4]


Internet-Draft      draft-ietf-l2tpext-failover-00.txt   February 2002



2.3.2. Failed Endpoint's Peer's behavior 

It accepts tunnel requests from the peer as specified in [L2TP] with 
following considerations:

o  It MUST use the Old Tunnel Id AVP, as described in section 3.3, to 
   determine whether peer is trying to recover an old tunnel and if 
   present which tunnel. 

o  It MUST validate Old Tunnel Id and Old Local Tunnel Id in an 
   incoming SCCRQ. If it doesn't find a match it MUST reject the SCCRQ. 
   
o  It may choose to reject the new tunnel request if it did not 
   advertise any failover capabilities on corresponding old tunnel.

o  Upon establishment of the new tunnel, it assumes the sessions 
   belonging to old tunnel on the new tunnel and begin normal operation 
   on the tunnel.


2.3.3	Session State Inconsistency Between Peers

The assumption in the failover mechanism is that the backup endpoint 
is kept in sync with the final state of the sessions when they are 
established or terminated. However, it is possible that a failover may 
occur while sessions are in transient state, in this case an endpoint 
may retransmit unacknowledged control messages to bring the session 
states to a consistent state once the tunnel is recovered. However, in 
some cases, this may not be possible, for example if a LAC initiates a 
session and fails prior to receiving its final ACK, then the session is 
considered established at the LNS while at the LAC it is still in 
transient state and therefore not backed up. In this case, the LNS may 
use other means to detect the  "dangling" session and locally terminate 
it. 



2.3.4. Data Plane Behavior 

If sequencing was used on data sessions, upon detecting peer's failure, 
the non-failed endpoint MUST set the next expected Ns based 
on the incoming Ns value. It must also flush re-ordering buffers if 
applicable.







Jain, et al.                   expires Aug 2002                [Page 5]


Internet-Draft      draft-ietf-l2tpext-failover-00.txt   February 2002



3.0. Failover AVPs

The new AVPs that should be included in SCCRQ, SCCRP messages are as 
follows:


3.1. Failover Initiate Capability AVP [SCCRQ, SCCRP]

Failover Capability Initiate AVP, Attribute Type [TBD], describes if an 
endpoint could initiate recovery on a given tunnel after failure.

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |M|H| rsvd  |      Length       |           Vendor Id [IETF]    |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |         Attribute Type [TBD]  | 
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

The AVP is not mandatory (the M-bit MUST be set to 0) The AVP MAY be 
hidden (the H-bit set to 0 or 1). 


3.2. Failover Response Capability AVP [SCCRQ, SCCRP]

Failover Capability Response AVP, Attribute Type [TBD], describes if an 
endpoint is capable of responding to failure on a given tunnel.
 
    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |M|H| rsvd  |      Length       |           Vendor Id [IETF]    |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |         Attribute Type [TBD]  | 
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

The AVP is not mandatory (the M-bit MUST be set to 0) The AVP MAY be 
hidden (the H-bit set to 0 or 1). 


3.3. Old Tunnel ID AVP [SCCRQ, SCCRP]

The Old Tunnel ID AVP, Attribute Type [TBD], encodes the Tunnel ID in 
SCCRQ and SCCRP messages that was assigned by the receiver before 
failure. 





Jain, et al.                   expires Aug 2002                [Page 6]


Internet-Draft      draft-ietf-l2tpext-failover-00.txt   February 2002



    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |M|H| rsvd  |      Length       |           Vendor Id [IETF]    |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |         Attribute Type [TBD]  |         Old Tunnel Id         |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

This AVP is mandatory(the M-bit MUST be set to 1). The AVP may be 
hidden (the H-bit set to 0 or 1).  


3.4. Old Local Tunnel ID AVP [SCCRQ, SCCRP]

The Old Tunnel Local ID AVP, Attribute Type [TBD], encodes the Tunnel 
Id in SCCRQ and SCCRP messages that was assigned by the sender before 
failure. 

    0                   1                   2                   3
    0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |M|H| rsvd  |      Length       |           Vendor Id [IETF]    |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
   |         Attribute Type [TBD]  |     Old Local Tunnel Id       |
   +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

The AVP is not mandatory (the M-bit MUST be set to 1) The AVP may be
hidden (the H-bit set to 0 or 1). 


4. IANA Considerations

This document requires three new "AVP Attributes" to be assigned 
through IETF Consensus [RFC2434] as indicated in Section 10.1 of 
[RFC2661]. These are:

   Failover Initiate Capability AVP (section 3.1)

   Failover Response Capability AVP (section 3.2)

   Old Tunnel ID AVP (section 3.3)

   Old Local Tunnel ID AVP (section 3.4)

This document defines no additional number spaces for IANA to 
manage.




Jain, et al.                   expires Aug 2002                [Page 7]


Internet-Draft      draft-ietf-l2tpext-failover-00.txt   February 2002


5. Security considerations

The failover mechanism described here leaves a small (1 in 2^32) room 
for an intruder to discover the old tunnel id of an existing tunnel by 
trying out various possibilities in Old Tunnel Id and Old Local Tunnel 
Id AVP.


6. References

[L2TP] Townsley, et. al., "Layer Two Tunneling Protocol L2TP", RFC2661


7. Authors' Addresses

   Reinaldo Penno 
   Nortel Networks
   2305 Mission College Blvd
   Santa Clara, CA 95054
   Phone: +1 408.565.3023
   Email: rpenno@nortelnetworks.com

   Keyur Parikh 
   Megisto Systems
   20251 Century Boulevard, Suite 120 
   Germantown, MD 20876 
   Phone: +1 301.444.1723 
   Email: kparikh@megisto.com 

   Leo Huber
   Extreme Networks
   3585 Monroe St.
   Santa Clara CA 95051
   Phone: +1 408.597.3037 
   Email: lhuber@extremenetworks.com

   Ly Loi 
   Tahoe Networks
   3052 Orchard Drive 
   San Jose, CA 95134 
   Phone: +1 408.944.8630 
   Email: lll@tahoenetworks.com

   







Jain, et al.                   expires Aug 2002                [Page 8]


Internet-Draft      draft-ietf-l2tpext-failover-00.txt   February 2002


   Vipin Jain
   Pipal Systems
   2903 Bunker Hill Ln #210
   Santa Clara, CA 95054
   Phone: +1 408.470.9700
   Email: vipinietf@yahoo.com

   W. Mark Townsley
   Cisco Systems
   7025 Kit Creek Road
   PO Box 14987
   Research Triangle Park, NC 27709
   EMail: townsley@cisco.com







































Jain, et al.                   expires Aug 2002                [Page 9]
