

Network Working Group                               Alex Zinin (Alcatel)
Internet Draft                                 Abhay Roy (Cisco Systems)
Expiration Date: March 2005                  Liem Nguyen (Cisco Systems)
File name: draft-nguyen-ospf-oob-resync-05.txt


                OSPF Out-of-band LSDB resynchronization

                  draft-nguyen-ospf-oob-resync-05.txt

Status of this Memo

This document is an Internet-Draft and is in full conformance with all
provisions of Section 10 of RFC2026.

Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering Task
Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that other groups
may also distribute working documents as Internet-Drafts.

Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference material
or to cite them other than as ``work in progress.''

The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt

The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.


Abstract OSPF is a link-state intra-domain routing protocol used in IP
networks. LSDB synchronization in OSPF is achieved via two methods--
initial LSDB synchronization when an OSPF router has just been connected
to the network and asynchronous flooding that ensures continuous LSDB
synchronization in the presence of topology changes after the initial
procedure was completed.  It may sometime be necessary for OSPF routers
to resynchronize their LSDBs. OSPF standard, however, does not allow
routers to do so without actually changing the topology view of the
network.  This memo describes a vendor specific mechanism to perform
such form of out-of-band LSDB synchronization.










draft-nguyen-ospf-lls-05.txt                                    [Page 1]

Internet Draft    draft-nguyen-ospf-oob-resync-05.txt     September 2004


1. Motivation

   According to the OSPF standard [RFC2328], after two OSPF routers have
   established an adjacency (the neighbor FSMs have reached Full state),
   routers announce the adjacency states in their router-LSAs.
   Asynchronous flooding algorithm ensures routers' LSDBs stay in sync
   in the presence of topology changes.  However, if routers need (for
   some reason) to resynchronize their LSDBs, they cannot do that
   without actually putting the neighbor FSMs into the ExStart state.
   This effectively causes the adjacencies to be removed from the
   router-LSAs, which may not be acceptable if the desire is to prevent
   routing table flaps during database resynchronization. In this
   document, we provide the means for so-called out-of-band (OOB) LSDB
   resynchronization.

   The described mechanism can be used in a number of situations
   including those where the routers are picking the adjacencies up
   after a reload.  The process of adjacency preemption is outside the
   scope of this document. Only the details related to LSDB
   resynchronization are mentioned herein.


2. Out-Of-Band Resynchronization Solution

   The format of the OSPF Database Description packet is changed to
   include a new R-bit indicating OOB LSDB resynchronization. All DBD
   packets sent during the OOB resynchronization procedure are sent with
   the R-bit set.

   Also, two new fields are added to the neighbor data structure. The
   first field indicates neighbor's OOB resynchronization capability.
   The second indicates that OOB LSDB resynchronization is in process.
   The latter field allows OSPF implementations to utilize the existing
   neighbor FSM code.

   A bit is occupied in the Extended Options TLV (see [LLS]). Routers
   set this bit to indicate their capability to support the described
   technique.


2.1. The LR bit

   A new bit, called LR (LR stands for LSDB Resynchronization) is
   introduced to the LLS Extended Options TLV (see [LLS]).  The value of
   the bit is TBD (0x00000001 is the temporarily used value, see Figure
   1).   See the "IANA Considerations" section of [LLS] for more
   information on the Extended Options bit definitions.  Routers set LR
   bit to announce OOB LSDB resynchronization capability.



draft-nguyen-ospf-lls-05.txt                                    [Page 2]

Internet Draft    draft-nguyen-ospf-oob-resync-05.txt     September 2004


     +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+- -+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+
     | * | * | * | * | * | * | * |...| * | * | * | * | * | * | * | LR|
     +---+---+---+---+---+---+---+- -+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+---+

                        Figure 1. The Options field


   Routers supporting the OOB LSDB resynchronization technique set the
   LR bit in the EO-TLV in the LLS block attached to both Hello and DBD
   packets. Note that no bit is set in the standard OSPF Options field,
   neither in OSPF packets, nor in LSAs.


2.2. OSPF Neighbor Data Structure

   A field is introduced into OSPF neighbor data structure, as described
   below. The name of the field is OOBResync and it is a flag indicating
   that the router is currently performing OOB LSDB resynchronization
   with the neighbor.

   OOBResync flag is set when the router is initiating the OOB LSDB
   resynchronization (see Section 2.6 for more details).

   Routers clear OOBResync flag on the following conditions.

      o The neighbor data structure is first created

      o The neighbor FSM transitions to any state lower than ExStart

      o The neighbor FSM transitions to ExStart state because a DBD
        packet with R-bit clear has been received

      o The neighbor FSM reaches state Full.

   Note that OOBResync flag may have TRUE value only if the neighbor FSM
   is in states ExStart, Exchange, or Loading. As indicated above, if
   the FSM transitions to any other state, the OOBResync flag should be
   cleared.

   It is important to mention that operation of OSPF neighbor FSM is not
   changed by this document. However, depending on the state of the
   OOBResync flag, the router sends either normal DBD packets or DBD
   packets with the R-bit set.








draft-nguyen-ospf-lls-05.txt                                    [Page 3]

Internet Draft    draft-nguyen-ospf-oob-resync-05.txt     September 2004


2.3. Hello Packets

   Routers capable of performing OOB LSDB resynchronization should
   always set the LR bit in their Hello packets.


2.4. DBD Packets

   Routers supporting the described technique should always set the LR
   bit in the DBD packets. Since the Options field of the initial DBD
   packet is stored in corresponding neighbor data structure, the LR bit
   may be used later to check if a neighbor is capable of performing OOB
   LSDB resynchronization.

   The format of type-2 (DBD) OSPF packets is changed to include a flag
   indicating OOB LSDB resynchronization procedure. Figure 2 illustrates
   the new packet format.

     0                   1                   2                   3
     0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |   Version #   |       2       |         Packet length         |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                          Router ID                            |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                           Area ID                             |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |           Checksum            |             AuType            |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                       Authentication                          |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                       Authentication                          |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |         Interface MTU         |    Options    |0|0|0|0|R|I|M|MS
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                     DD sequence number                        |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                                                               |
    +-                                                             -+
    |                                                               |
    +-                      An LSA Header                          -+
    |                                                               |
    +-                                                             -+
    |                                                               |
    +-                                                             -+
    |                                                               |
    +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
    |                              ...                              |



draft-nguyen-ospf-lls-05.txt                                    [Page 4]

Internet Draft    draft-nguyen-ospf-oob-resync-05.txt     September 2004


                        Figure 2. Modified DBD packet


   The R-bit in OSPF type-2 packets is set when the OOBResync flag for
   the specific neighbor is set to TRUE. If a DBD packets with R-bit
   clear is received for a neighbor with active OOBResync flag, the OOB
   LSDB resynchronization process is cancelled and normal LSDB
   synchronization procedure is initiated.

   When a DBD packet is received with R-bit set and the sender is known
   to be OOB-incapable, the packet should be dropped and a SeqNumber-
   Mismatch event should be generated for the neighbor.

   Processing of DBD packets is modified as follows.

      1) If the OOBResync flag for the neighbor is set (the LSDB
         resynchronization process has been started) and received DBD
         packet does not have the R bit set, ignore the packet and gen-
         erate a SeqNumberMismatch event for the neighbor FSM.

      2) Otherwise, if OOBResync flag for the neighbor is clear and
         received DBD packet has the R bit set, perform the following
         steps:

         o If the neighbor FSM is in state Full and bits I, M, and MS
           are set in the DBD packet, set the OOBResync flag for the
           neighbor, put the FSM in ExStart state and continue process-
           ing the DBD packet as described in [RFC2328].

         o Otherwise, ignore received DBD packet (no OOB DBD packets are
           allowed with OOBResync flag clear and FSM in state other than
           Full.) Also, if the state of the FSM is Exchange or higher,
           generate a SeqNumberMismatch event for the neighbor FSM.

      3) Otherwise, process the DBD packet as described in [RFC2328].

   During normal processing of the initial OOB DBD packet (with bits R,
   I, M, and MS set), if the receiving router is selected to be the Mas-
   ter, it may speed up the resynchronization process by immediately
   replying to the received packet.

   It is also necessary to limit the time an adjacency can spend in
   ExStart, Exchange, and Loading states with OOBResync flag set to a
   finite period of time (e.g., by limiting the number of times DBD and
   link state request packets can be retransmitted).  If the adjacency
   does not proceed to Full state before the timeout, it is indicative
   that the neighboring router cannot resynchronize its LSDB with the
   local router.  The requesting router may decide to stop trying to



draft-nguyen-ospf-lls-05.txt                                    [Page 5]

Internet Draft    draft-nguyen-ospf-oob-resync-05.txt     September 2004


   resynchronize the LSDB over this adjacency (if, for example, it can
   be resynchronized via another neighbor on the same segment) or to
   resynchronize using the legacy method by clearing the OOBResync flag
   and leaving the FSM in ExStart state. The neighboring router may
   decide to cancel the OOB procedure for the neighbor.


2.5. Neighbor State Treatment

   OSPF implementation supporting the described technique should modify
   the logic consulting the state of a neighbor FSM as described below.

      o FSM state transitioning from and to the Full state with
        OOBResync flag set should not cause origination of a new
        version of router-LSA or network-LSA.

      o Any explicit checks for the Full state of a neighbor FSM for the
        purposes other than LSDB synchronization and flooding should
        treat states ExStart, Exchange, and Loading as state Full, pro-
        vided that OOBResync flag is set for the neighbor. (Flooding and
        MaxAge-LSA-specific procedures should not check the state of
        OOBResync flag, but should continue consulting only the FSM
        state.)


2.6. Initiating OOB LSDB Resynchronization

   To initiate out-of-band LSDB resynchronization, the router must first
   make sure that the corresponding neighbor supports this technology
   (by checking the LR bit in Options field of the neighbor data struc-
   ture).  If the neighboring router is capable, the OOBResync flag for
   the neighbor should be set to TRUE and the FSM state should be forced
   to ExStart.



3. Compatibility Issues

   Because OOB-capable routers explicitly indicate their capability by
   setting the corresponding bit in the Options field, no DBD packets
   with R-bit set are sent to OOB-incapable routers.

   The LR bit itself is transparent for OSPF implementations and does
   not affect communication between routers.







draft-nguyen-ospf-lls-05.txt                                    [Page 6]

Internet Draft    draft-nguyen-ospf-oob-resync-05.txt     September 2004


4. Security Considerations

   The described technique does not introduce any new security issues
   into OSPF protocol.



5. Acknowledgements

   The authors would like to thank Acee Lindem, Russ White, Don Slice,
   and Alvaro Retana for their valuable comments.


6. Intellectual Property Rights Considerations

   The IETF has been notified of intellectual property rights claimed in
   regard to some or all of the specification contained in this docu-
   ment.  For more information consult the online list of claimed
   rights.

   The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
   Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed to
   pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in
   this document or the extent to which any license under such rights
   might or might not be available; nor does it represent that it has
   made any independent effort to identify any such rights.  Information
   on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC documents can be
   found in BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any
   assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an
   attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of
   such proprietary rights by implementors or users of this
   specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository at
   http://www.ietf.org/ipr.

   The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
   copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary
   rights that may cover technology that may be required to implement
   this standard.  Please address the information to the IETF at ietf-
   ipr@ietf.org.










draft-nguyen-ospf-lls-05.txt                                    [Page 7]

Internet Draft    draft-nguyen-ospf-oob-resync-05.txt     September 2004


7. Normative References

   [OSPF] Moy, J., "OSPF Version 2", RFC 2328, April 1998.

   [LLS]  Zinin, A., Friedman, B., Roy, A., Nguyen, L. and D. Yeung,
          "OSPF Link-local Signaling", Work in progress, September 2004



8. Author Information



   Alex Zinin
   Alcatel
   Sunnyvale, CA
   USA
   E-mail: zinin@psg.com

   Abhay Roy
   Cisco Systems
   170 W. Tasman Dr.
   San Jose,CA 95134
   USA
   E-mail: akr@cisco.com

   Liem Nguyen
   7025 Kit Creek Rd.
   Research Triangle Park, NC 27709
   USA
   E-mail: lhnguyen@cisco.com




















draft-nguyen-ospf-lls-05.txt                                    [Page 8]


